
In 1392 there was only one place to go if you were young, ambitious and poor. The largest city in the world, the cultural and industrial heart of Christandom.

Florence. 

Like many of his age, Algeno had lost most of his family to the plague that had burnt through the towns and villages of Tuscany. The plague bought both death in the form of the terrifying disease and a  slower death as trade and industry slowed to nothing. Algeno was better off than many; his father had been a textile merchant and Algeno had at inherited a modest sum of money. Furthermore, in the expectation that he would ultimately take up the business, he had been educated in reading and writing, with an emphasis on the legal latin one might expect to find in formal contracts. Similarly, he was given adequate grasp of numbers and finance sufficient to ensure that we would not be unknowningly robbed. His father had had contacts in Florence – it being the center of ( as well as many other things ) the wool trade. Algeno, however, had little interest in commerce – Florence to him represented excitement. The city had returned to stability following the “Woollen Revolution”  and its bloody aftermath – an episode he dimly remembered as a source of great fear and worry to his father – and now promised a new and better life.

Travel to Florence from somewhere in Tuscany would be  inevitably difficult and dangerous. The damage to local economy had lead many labourers and the less better off to turn to banditry. This had in turn lead to an increase in taxation by the Florentine state in order to protect the lucratuive pilgrim trade. This had in a vicious cycle, forced yet others in turn to banditry. Nevertheless, weakened though his local town’s economy was, there was still a trickle of passing trade and nearly all of it headed to Florence. As someone with a little money, it was not difficult to persuade a group of merchants to let him share their protection 

The party Algeno joined were mainly wool traders, but included others like Algeno who had neogiated passage with the party. The traders numbered a half dozen, distributed in pairs sharing carts containing the wool that would ultimately be dyed into textiles in the Florence manufactories. The nominated leader of trader contingent was a ruddy faced man of indeterminate age called Angelo. Angelo’s face and body revealed a lifetime spent exposed to weather and sun, and Angelo’s communication with him amounted to little more than a curt nod in respone to Algno’s offer of terms. The second distinct group were the three fighting men that the caravan had engaged as protection. They were considerably more vocal and enjoying what the clearly expected to be easy money. The remainder consisted of a nervous youth of  roughlu Algeno’s age who made it quite apparent that we wished to have only the most minimal contact with his fellow travellars. He was pale and his hands showed little sign of manual labour, and reminded Algeno of the priests who had tutored him at his Father’s instruction. Algeno took him for a scholar or monk. Finally there was Alessandfro He interested Alegno greatly: he described himself as an itinerant artisan recently hired by a company in Florence  to assist on a project under the order of the Pope. This project would be decoration of an enormous fresco and would consume the abilities of many artisan’s such as himself. The company in question was run by one Carlo d’Umbra – a master craftsmen is his younger days; now more a project manager and financial officer. 

The jounery to Florence would take two days, all being well. Going was good – the roads were dry albeit dusty and weather was warm without being uncomfortably hot. The first day ended uneventfully with the parties arrival at ? Here the was an Inn – a basic single story brick structure beside the road  set inside a small olive grove – but inviting enough after a long day on the road. Horses were duly  stabled and the party ate and in due course retired to the Inn’s cots.

Algeno woke with start. Insinctively he checked that his money purse was still securely attached to huis ankle and that its contents seemed unchanged. Something had woken him, but what? He surveyed the communal the dormitory for something amiss. In the early dawn light Alegno picked out the empty cot of the laconic schiolar.  There was nothing really to concern Alegno – the scholar had clearly gone to piss and this must have been what woke Algeno. But still …. 

Alegno pulled himself from the cot and walked to the doorway. Looking, he could see no sign of the Scholar  and nothing of any noteworthiness. Algeno admonished himself for being so easily disturbed, blaming his nervousness on the excitement of the journey. But just then he sensed movement outside, from the direction of the stable that stood adjacent to the dormitory. Quietly ( although he was not sure why ) he edged towards the stable. A figure larger than the monkish  had just stood and separated himself from a dark bundle on the ground. The figure moved off, managing to disappear amongst the olive trees. Algeno, uncertain what to do stood paralyzed until the figure had vanished completely. Then he shook himself into action and walked to inspect the shape on the ground. Before he reached the bundle it became painfully apparent that it was a human form, that of the young scholar. After another brief moment paralysis, ALgeno rushed to wake the Inn keeper and his companions.

The boy was pronounced dead. The cause, the fighting man Paolo stated, was strangulation. This was an effective and silent way of dispatching someone, he continued with more relish that seemed appropriate. As to the reason? It was hard to say? Paolo and the other fighters favoured a sexual encounter gone wrong – the stop at the Inn had been planned and the boy (Paolo: “he looks the type”)  could have arranged this, or it might be a long standing arrangement of his. The fighting men concurred that this sort of thing happened all the time and was nothing to worry about, just a matter of sorting out the formalities, which ( for a suitable fee ) could be left to the Inn Keeper and they could be on their way. The merchants were less happy with this arrangement and stated that – given that Florence was now only a relatively short distance away – they wished to part company and would either go on alone or arrange ( again, via the  Inn Keep, whose distress at a murder at his establishment was now being eased by the potential of a very profitable day  ) alternative protection. The fighting men took affront at the presumed implication that they were behind their fellow travellers demise. Some heated discussion later and it was agreed that Agnelo and Alessandro were equally lilkely to the murders, for any number of reasons. Probably more so, it was agreed, in Algeno’s case as he had found the body and they only had his word that he had had nothing to do with boy’s death.

The discussions continued but Algeno sensed he was to be excluded from the party in future. Alessandro pulled him aside. “I think we should be going”

“We? Alone on the roads?”

“Its not far to Florence now these roads are well protected by the city state. We will be fine out there – no so sure about here though … a body without a killer is generally considered untidy. If our friend had been a miserable artisan or member of a minor guild then perhaps things would be forgotten – but I do not think that was the case…”

“How so?”

“I have been doing  a little  investigation while you and our fellows were planning the future of our partnerhip and I do not think he was an unlucky victim of a passing sodomite. But lets not talk here … time to get moving. Fetch the horses”

“Gentlemen!” Alessandro announced. “While we have a pleasant journey thus far – marred only slightly by this unfortunate event – myself and Alegno have business in Florence and we will be on our way.  Should you wish to seek myself out, it is my intention to board at “The Agnostics” on  via somethingorother. I wish you a good journey and a prosperous outcome to our enterprise! Adeui!”

They quicklyu mounted and returned to the road. This had happened quickly enough that opinion had nt yet converged on whether the two should be apphrended, despite acting a manner entirely compatible with guilt. Paolo half heartedly moved to intercept them, then humbled “Oh, fuck it”, shrugged and wandered off to find his own horse. The Inn Keeper has compensated and instructed to inform the local magistrate and the matter considered resolved. Overall, it was true – these things did happen and it was not worth too much of a fuss.

As they neared the city, traffic increased. Earlier, they had passed only the occasional trader, soldiers or small groups of pilgrims – now so much dust was being kicked up the various vehicles and beasts that sight was sometimes obscured. The countryside had changed too: rather than small holdings and the rude dwellings of provincial farmers, large prosperous villas were now visible from the road. The fields that comprised these wealthy estates were tidy and well managed, as were large the orchards and olive groves. As the road turned downwards in the Arno valley, the fruit trees were replaced by vineyards and Alegno was at last presented with a view of Florence.

It was hard not be struck by Giotto’s cathedral. Although the great dome was as yet unfinished, it was still a truly spectacular building and surely the equal of anything in Rome. The Duomo sat nestled in a field of non-contiguous red terracotta roofs. This surface was punctuated at regular intervals with the towers of the elite’s Palazzo’s. The city itself was bisected by the Arno – here wide enough be navigable and scattered with skiffs and  small ships. Except for where the river entered, of halves of the city were encircled by a solid and functional wall. This was an entirely practical structure as feuds between the city states were a not uncommon occurance. In the past Siena had been Florence’s bitter rival and although now much weakened Venice, Milan and others were still a potential threat.  At the points the where the river cut the city, bastions terminated the wall. Alessandro explained that a chain ran between the bastions which could be raised to block river traffic at both ends, although this, as far as he knew had never been done. Outside the walls the city was itself surrounded by a broad girdle of more basic buidlings; the more substantial of these were of stone and wood, but others were little more than hovels. The better off of this group attended to the various industrial concerns along the Arno. Many were unguilded mechanics, others belonged to the recognised but disenfranchised minor guilds. Above them were the major guilds, most important of which was the banking guild, whose members dominated the patrician  council and ruled the city state. 

“That is, when they are conspiring against one another”, Alessandro commented.

Below the minor guilds were The Miserable. They accounted for nearly a quarter of Florences population and were penniless and powerless. Much like Alegno, men and whole families had been drawn to Florence in search of work. Unable to buy membership of a guild, they had turned to the usual careers of the desperate: begging, prostitution and crime.  

It was not long ago that things had been looking up for The Miserables– following the Woollen revolution reforms had been enacted that would give the lower strata’s of Florentine society better representation,. However, after only a couple of years in office the new council had become divided by internal bickering between the facions representing the minor guilds and those representing the guildless. This latter group had been lead by a mysterious party called the “Eight Saints”, the leadership of which had always been unclear. Following the fracture in the revolutionary government, the disposed government had rallied and restored power in a bloody coup. The Albizzi family now dominated Florentine rule and intended to ensure that the re-asserted order remain unchallenged. 

Alegno and Alessandro entered Florence through the Porte ? At this pinch point traffic turgidly flowed into the city and Alessandro, quiet up to this point, struck up conversation.

“I will introduce you to Carlo shortly. I have a few errands to run first. Go to  Some Inn and wait for me there. Take a room, if you can afford it”

“For now”

“Good. And – I know, I do not need to say this, but, Nevertheless – do not speak of the unfortunate in our party.” Said Alessandro seriously. He looked at Algeno until he registered Alegno’s nod.

“Excellent. And try stay out of trouble. This is a complex city and you will find it easy to make enemies.”

Passing through the gate, they paid the gatekeeper the passage tax and entered Florence proper. Here traffic gradually became lighter as vehicles dispersed into the body of the city. “I shall see you at Some Inn this evening – you will find at, in that direction”. Alessandro gestured and set his horse walking in  the direction of Piazza della Signora. Alegno found himself alone in the bustle of Florence.

Alegno for all his desire to make his fortune had rarely travelled from Wherever He Lived. On only two occasions had he accompanied his father to markets in neighbouring towns. These had been great adventures at the time and the towns of ? and ? had seemed almost unbearably noisy an alien. Now he found himself in a city in the same league as Rome or any other great metropolis.  Dismounting he lead his horse through Florence, mesmerised by its sights and sounds.

He was knocked from his Reverie by a sudden impact, a scream of pain and a sharp accusation.

“You fool – do you look where you are going? You knocked me down!”. The speaker, also the source of the scream, lay on the ground in front of Alegno’s horse. He was a man in his late middle years and well dressed, jhis clothes clearly marking him as a member of major guilds. The crowd formed clearly a space around the fallen stranger and paused to watch, sensing the potential for some entertainment. Alegno, remembering Alessandro’s advice, quickly dismounted to assist the fallen gentleman. “Get your hands off me, Little Man. I could have you hung for this – do you know who I am?”. The man stood, wincing with the evident of the action.

“My Apologies sir. If there is anything I can do…”. Alegno was all to conscious that with no guild membership he was little better than the The Miserables in the eye of the judiciary.

“Of course you don’t” said the injured man, dusting off his cloak. “tourist like yourself. Go – I have important business and your ill-disciplined manner has delayed me long enough. And you” he shouted, angrily addressing the crowd. “Go about your business”. With a scowl at Alegno, he pushed his way past the crowd and was gone.  

That could have been worse thought Alegno. Something, however, was wrong. With horror he realised that the familiar weight of his coin purse was missing. 

:
Pursuit was out of the question, so it was a dejected Alegno greeted Alessandro in the Inn Which Doesn’t Have Name Yet. While the coin purse did not hold his temporal wealth – there remained coins in his saddle bags – it contained a reasonable amount of it.  “I should have warned you”, Alessandro said admonishing himself. “Boys from provinces taking their first trip to the big city are the favoured prey of these tricksters – but, Christ’s Balls, you were unlucky.”

To his surprise, Alessandro felt a tap on his shoulder. “Please. Your language, sir” said the Inn Keeper.

“What? I apologize if I have offended you, but I am surprised that a sensible chap like yourself so easily takes offence. I nevertheless meant our saviour no disrespect.”

“It is not  the vain use of Our Redeemer’s name that our host takes offence against”. A middle aged man  of  emerged from the darkened heart of the tavern. “May I?”, he indicated a seat next to the two men. Having little choice, they gestured that he sit. “You have been away from Florence some months, I shall assume.”.

“Assume we have”, said Alessandro, guardily.

“I which case you will not know that the Medicis are once again vying for power. The Albizzi fear they will establish a power base from the minor guilds and the New Men. To counter this, they have spies everywhere.”

“New Men? Not a term I’ve heard before”

“Wealthy artisans without guilds and no interest in joining them, aside from that it brings representation in government. People – “ he smiled – “ like ourselves perhaps.”

Enlightment hit Alessandro. “I understand – who am I to thank for this council? “.

The man bowed, mockingly. “You may know me as Sir John Hawkwood.”. He poured himself a cup of Alegno and Alessandro’s wine. 

“Your good health gentleman”, Sir John toasted.

“I have been away too long” sighed Alessandro.

“I still do not understand” frowned Alegno.

“Balls. The symbol of the Medici house. Our friend here is warning us not to say anything that might be interpreted as codified support for the Medicis. Things are clearly tense – so when you swear, he sure to choose another part of your anatomy.

“It is fortunate, then”. grinned Sir John, “that the good lord has furnished us with so many”.

Sir John joined them from the remainder of the evening. Sir John was the leader of the military contractors known as the “White Company”. They were, somewhat, unusually English, which explained his accent. Ths did not autiomatically mark him as non-Italian – indeed, many Florentines snobbishly regarded only the  Tuscan dialect as the “true” Italian. The dialects of the northern Italian states of Venice were Milan were familiar enough to Alegno, but if Sir John claimed to have been raised in some southern province its unlikely Alegno would have been able to call out this dissemnination solely on the basis of his accent.

 
“And where in England, if I may ask – although I apologize I do not know the country well…”

“Essex. A rain drenched shithole. Left when I was a boy, never been back, never going back. Served with the Kind a bit on God-damned adventure poor pay and too much fighting for my taste”

This struck Alegno as a  little odd. “Excuse my impertinence, but … not like fighting?”

“I see you have a lot to learn about soldiery. Can I tell you the difference between a soldier who enjoys fighting and one who does not?”

“What, pray?”

“Six feet of earth. If he’s lucky, that is. More often than his beast worried flesh will get burned in a common pyre. Training and skill, with good equipment and planning, will get you to the point where you may lose fewer than 1 fight in 1000. But spend a lifetime at arms and that one will find you quickly enough.”

“So you no longer fight?”

“Technically, the White Company serve as soliders for Florence. Which is to say the council pay us to prevent us working for her enemies. Should Milan or Venice offer more, we will work for them unless Florence meets or betters the offer.”

“It sounds … as bit dishonourable!”

“Ha, what are you, some Frankish Knight? Well, you are in Florence now, and its just business, everyone understands how it works – nobody really wants a war, it’s bad for business. This military shuffling maintains the balance and everyone gets on with making money.”

Sir John continued with stories from his many campaigns in around Italy. Algeno would have liked to have listened more – for all his stated aversion to combat, he did seem to engage in a fair bit of it – but Alegno was exchausted from the days journey, and retired to his basic cot in the common room in the Inn’s first story.

He awoke the following day and in a panic checked his remaining possessions. All were present and he allowed himself to relax a bit. Alessandro was already up and gathering his gear for the day ahead. “I have business with Carlo this morning – interviews for apprentices. Meet us after eight o’clock – it is a short way, here I will draw you a map. We are here – “. He indicated a point on the map not far from the ??  gate, in the ?? quarter. Carlo’s studio is here. Take this road, through Piazza Della Signoria and then head south, down ??  to the Arno. Safe journey”. And he was away, noisily thumping down the Inn’s narrow stair.

Algeno breakfasted on some mutton broth that the Inn Keeper’s wife supplied, then headed out once again into the pulsing streets of Florence. More vigilant now, but concerned with his new reduced circumstances. The plan he had formulated with Alessandro on the journey had hinged on his ability to buy an apprenticeship. While numerate and relatively practical, he was conscious that he had no talents that seemed immediately applicable. He could practise no trade as he could not formally join a guild – guild membership in Florence, as in many places, was open only to sons or sons-in-law of guild members. His only hope was to become one of Sir John’s New Men – people whose wealth and influence gave them de-facto immunity from the edicts of the guilds. In Florence such people could work anywhere, using their money as a tool to flatter and cajole the people opposing them. Having served an apprenticeship to a master, it was not inconceivable that someone with talent and the necessary contacts could rise to a position of prominence. But the funds he had would last him only a few months – and then what?

The street he was on passed through a stone gate – this reminded Alegno that many years ago the different quarters of Florence had been ruled exclusively by one of the twenty or so great families. Each quarter was almost a tiny state unto itself dominated by the  Palazzo of the fanmily. Travel into or through it carefully controlled by each Family’s private militias. Over the years, with the general consent of the ruling Families, power had been consolidated into a ruling elite dominated by the guilds. Civic order had become the responsibility of the Florentine state militia and the boundaries between the original estates had been eroded and finally merged into the cityscape, his just the odd anachronistic gate or pointless fortification remaining. 

The street widened and spilled its traffic out into the Piazza Della Signora. Florence’s largest square was dominated by the guild hall shared by the city’s major guilds. Outside this building a scaffold had been erected, on which hung the bodies of a recent hanging. This sight did not of course distress Algeno in anyway – while he was a regular attendee at exceutions he was reassured to see the evidence that violent criminals were being apphrended and punished. It broadcast a clear message that criminal behaviour would not be tolerated.

Leaving the square he turned south towards the Arno and Carlo’s studio. 

:

Carlo faced the candidate across a trestle talbe. He poured himself a large cup of wine. The fourth this morning, but it had been a stressful morning. Alessandro scowled but said noihing.  The candidate shuffled nervously on the crude stool on which he sat.

Carlo passed the boy a slate and chalk. "Draw me a hand"
 
"Excuse me, sir?"
 
"A hand. A human hand ".Carlo held up his own hands to demonstrate. Gingerly the boy took the slate and started to draw, his hands shaking. Carlo waited waited impatiently. A few minutes later the slate was nervously returned. Carlo studied it briefly then pushed it aside. "Crap" he said. "Utter crap. I mean - do your hands look like this", gesturing at the discarded slate. He signed. "Fuck off". The boy looked about to cry. "Go" repeated Carlo. 
 
"I think that concludes this interview", said Alessandro, smiling at the boy. "Thanks for your time - we'll be touch". The miserable boy stood up, bowed to the men and left. 
 
"What", said Carlo, "Is the point of a fucking HR team if they cannot screen out  these imebeciles? We're not looking for the next fucking LdV - just some monkey who knows which end of the brush to dab in the pigment,  and can toss off a reasonable Madonna and Child if needs be. Just crowd pleasing stuff that pays the bills. Anyway, who was he?"
 
"No one important - just some merchant's son who fancies himself an artist. If he was anyone important, you would not be interviewing him. We have enough problems running this place without you pissing off the nobility by telling them that their beloved offsrping are talentless turds. Right - You. Ah yes…"
 
Agleno stepped fully into the room. "What would you like me to …"
 
Carlo snorted. "That's fine. Bicelli vouches for you, and your paid up front and frankly I'm not sure I can take seeing any more abominations and mockery of the divine creation. And it's time for Lunch … Alessandro show our new apprentice around". 
 
The studio and workshop of Carlo d'Florentine occupied most of a corner building on the fashionable north bank of the Arno. Ther building had been adapted like many to the needs of the new industry - walls had been taken down, winches installed, canopies thrown over the street. The ground floor merged more or less seamlessly with the street and a large rear yard. The majority of the ground floor was devoted to carpentry and the assembly of the timberwork that was as much a part of the modern artistsan’s craft as pigments and pastes. The frames assembled here would be used to build scaffolding at the cleint’s location, which would in turn be used by artisans the apply colouring to the plaster. The pigments and dyes used for this were prepared on the first floor – in part because the process required more concentration and skill and it was beneficial to reduce distractions, but also because the base materials themselves were often valuable and the recipes themselves secret. Carlo’s workshop rested much of its reputation on the secret knowledge it professed to have obtained – seeded with the knowledge of the ancients and refined through experimentation and invention. 

Algeno followed Alessando into the upper workshop via a rough stair and breathed in the smells and sights  of the industry he had committed himself to being part of.

Gentle folk wold probably imagine an artsist studio along the lines of a academy from antiquity. That is a scene consisting of beautiful young men splayed in poses of quas-erotic relaxation bathed in the wisdom of a venerable master. This wisdom would be illustrated by an anatomical or perspective study to which the great man would be gesturing. Algno had seen such images but it was hard to be critical when this was the image that artisans were frequently keen to present to their wealthy and entitled clients. The reality, of course, was somewhat different. A real working studio had more in common with a manufactory or tannery than a place of higher learning.  The smell of the upper workshop combined a sharp chemical smell with that of food, buirnt charchoal and human vomit. The latter smell emenated from a human bundle in the far corner. Alessandro snorted disapprovingly. “Adolfo” he said “Too much wine”. Apart from Adolfo, the workshop was empty. “Most are at the site today” said Alessandro, “But I expect you’ll want to get settled in, see what we’re doing..”. He gestured at another feature of the workshop – various studios on vellum, generally of faces and hands with a few additional objects and architectural features. These were pre-production exercises to solve technical problems with the work, and Algeno suspected – interview or not – he was being tested to see if he could infer the nature of the work from the these sketches. Which, of course, he easily could. “The Fall, sir?”. 

“Yes, indeed. For the Malatesta’s of Rimini. Have you heard of them”

“I have not”. 
“Pandolfo is a contractor, with a bit of a reputation, although not something you should worry about - he gives everything indication of being pleased with the work.”
Algeno could not help but finding something less than comforting about the implication that Malatesta’s pleasure or lack of it should be a cause for worry.
“Well, I can see you are eager to start. Does this work station suit you?”. He indicated a space on a trestle need Adolfo’s sleeping form. “Everyone works in pairs here – outside of a few specialised areas – ensures there’s always someone to take over if we lose someone, keeps the project on track. Unfortunately … “. He gesturted at Adolfo – “.. he’s your designated partner. You’ll be starting off with making basic pigments and we’ll see how you get on.”. Alessandro noted a flicker of disappointment cross  Alegno’s face and smirked. “Yes, I am sure you think yourself stupendously talented – and in your case there is at least some evidence that you are not a complete fool – but you start with the basics, just like everyone else. There will be plenty of time to dazzle us with your brilliance later”.
“I am sorry, sir, I didn’t mean to …”
Alessandro laughed. “Don’t worry about it – its not a sin to have ambition and talent without ambition is almost a sin itself. But ..”. He paused and scanned the room. “ … making these works is not the same as sketching in charcoal  or making provincial portraits. There are so many pieces that must be spun together and no individual however talented would be able to create the work alone. The awe these works inspires is through the understanding that these cannot be the work of single man, that they are the product of something greater – and maybe through them we get a glimpse of the divine.” . Alessandro took a breath. “Sorry, I can get carried away, but do you take my meaning? I do not wish to discourage you”
“No, I understand – I want only to study and learn from a master …”
Ce describe him as a master, friends though we’ve been for years. Still, that’s not to say you won’t learn much, although it may not be what you expect…”
Alessandro left him and proceeded downstairs to attend to some other business. A low groan emerged from the sleeping form, “Adolfo?” whispered Alegno cautiously, “I am Algeno. I belive we will be working together and …”. Adolfo let out an enormous fart, the smell of which melded unattractively with the vinegary vomit stench. “WhatDoYaWant?”, slurred the body, awkwardly brining himself upright. The boy was wearing a hooded cloak of coarse fabric that masked his features. He steadied himself on a table. “I’m Alegno ..”. Adolfo turned towards Alegno and removed is hood. Alegno stood dumbstruck. “What?”, queried Adolfo noting Alegno’s shocked expression. And then “Oh”.
“You!” cried Algeno, recognising the thief from the previous day. Adolfo was not well drerssed and of a similar age to Alegno, but there could be no mistaking him. Whatever art he had used to disguise his age could not ultimately warp his features totally. Also, he recognised Algeno and did not think Alegno was likely to be kindly disposed to him.
Adolfo knew that Alegno had every reason to wish him harm, so in his simple calculus he has entirely justified in throwing himself against Alegno and hitting him with all the force he could muster. It was not a particularly effective swing and Alegno rode it out without difficulty, but in doing lost his balance and tripped over a stool. Adolfo took the opportunity to escape, dropping through to the ground floor through the trap. Knwoing that he would have little chance of catching him if he lost sight of him, Algeno did not hesitate to throw himself through the hole in pursuit.
Alegno crashed onto the ground floor, his hands raw from the splinters that he had taken from the ladder during his descent. Alessandro, discussing some delivery with a tradesperson, started at the commotion. “Its him! The Thief!” cried Alegno, catching his breath. “Stop him!”
“Who? Adolfo?”
“Yes, Adolfo!”, he shouted as he entered the chase. On the street, the traffic was heavy as always and Adolfo was by no means conspicuously dressed. Indeed, every passer by seemed to be wearing a similar cheap cloak. Alegno scanned the street anxiously, by luck spotting a cloaked figure walking quickly, impeded by slight limp that Alegno gussed had been sustained in the fall. Alegno ran to intercept him.
Running through the busy Florentine streets was by no means easy. Now, well into late morning the streets were busy with traders, guildmen, pilgrims and many ordinary folk. Indolent apprentices lounged by the side of the street discussing women and sport. A few militia men watched the street – but Alegno instinctively felt that as an outsider drawing their attention would not necessarily be to his advantage.  Adolfo ducked into a narrow alley – barely the width of a man side on  and no so much as athroughfare as an artefact of the city’s chaotic architectural history. Alegno should have lost Adolfo at this point, and turned into the cramp space with every expectation of having his quarry lost. Instead, he saw Adolfo firmly pressed by the neck against the wall by another boy. Blonde, good looking and dressed in the manner of a noble. The new boy beamed at Alegno and turned back to the miserable Adolfo.
“So this is who you are running from, Adolfo? A scrawny boy like him – you should be ashamed! Wait …”. He turned to Alegno. “Did I not see you a moment ago at Carlo’s vermin infested dump?”
“While I thank you for your help, I have business with this thief…”
“Adolfo, a thief? Look at the little angel…”. He ruffled Adolfo’s filthy ginger hair. “How could anyone accuse him of such a thing?”
“Please, good sir..”
“Well, if you say so – what kind of bounty will you pay me?”
“Bounty? I have no money …”
“Pity. Nevertheless, some kind of deterrence is in order. Shall we say a finger?”
“…”
“or two?”
Adolfo piped up. “Sigismondo, you derranged fuck, let me go!”
Alegno was slightly taken aback. “You know each other?”
“Small world. We work together”  Sigismondo said conversationally. “with you, presumably. Although, whether Carlo will continue to employ our friend here when is unable to work due to an .. er ..  deficiency of fingers, I cannot say …”. In a fluid motion, Sigismondo pulled an expensive looking knife from a scabbard on his breeches,  released Adolfo’s neck and grabbed his hand. He slashed the knife across Adolfo’s hand. Adolfo screamed and, no longer restrtained, fell to the ground.
A white faced Adolfo raised his unscathed hand to his face.
“There. See? You know I would never harm a hair on a fellow apprentice’s back”
“You are a fucking prick, Sigismondo”, mumbled Adolfo from the ground.
Sigismondo rubbed his hands with satisfaction and turned back to Alegno, and held out his hand. “Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta at your service”

“Alegno”
“Pleased to make your acquaintance Alegno. Now, I have a busy day of whoring and so forth to attend to, so I will leave you gentlemen to your business.”. He gave a cheery salute and strode confidently off towards the main road.
Adolfo did not get up. “Sorry”, he mumbled.
“I will accept the apology once my money is returned” responded ALgeno.
“Not possible, I’m afraid. Spent”
“What do you mean ‘Spent’ – there was more than fifteen florins in that purse. How could you have spent them all in one evening?”
“Had a few debts that needed paying.  Look –“, he ventured – “ I don’t have your money, but I’ll be able to get it back – you just need to give me a few weeks.”
“Or I could turn you into the Militia, or tell Carlo that one of his apprentice’s is a common thief, or …”
“In which case you won’t get your money back, I am afraid. And look, I can pay you in other ways …”
“I am not interested. Do I look like a sodomite to you?”, said Alegno disgusted.
“Well, now that you mention it … but no, I didn’t mean that. I can teach you”
“Teach me what?”
“The new techniques, perspective drawing, anatomy – that kind of thing…”
“Really?”
“Well, it’s fair to say that Carlo does not employ me for my honesty and work ethic”, Adolfo said smugkly,  He employs me because I am hell damned good at drawing.”
:
Antonio had decided that this year the Family would win the Palio. The Palio di Lugna was held annually in Siena in honour of Maria of Provenzano, and was a the highlight of a week of sporting competitions and general merry making. The population as a whole participated: the poorer members took part in boxing and wrestling matches, the richer in the Palio and jousting events. To win the Palio, however, was to receive divine affirmation that your family were viewed favourably by the Virgin and all the saints. And while losing – and losing on a more-or-less annual basis – did not quite carry the opposite connotation, it was a source of  embarrassment for the Arezzo’s, and non more so that Antonio Arezzo.
Since his fifteenth birthday he had competed in the annual competition, obtaining on one occasion a respectable second place. He had, more recently, been thrown and suffered an injury to the head. He had been unconscious for some minutes and it was feared he was dead. He recovered, and pledged to ride again the next year. However, all who knew him, knew that his heart was no longer in it and if the family was to win, it would have to be with another rider.
Antonio considered his siblings: Giorgio was brave, but too level-headed and sensible to have much interest in participating. He was also a poor horseman. Francesco was even less promsing, book-ish and clumsy. That left Federigo. Federigo’s total lack of common sense and unshakeable optimism on the the face of it mind hin an ideal canidate for participation in a dangerous urban riding event. However, he was a large man – not fat, but large framed and well muscled – which would not make hin the ideal competitor.
The was, of course, another option.
Isabetta, their sister. 
In most supposedly noble families the idea would have been unthinkable. Girls were raised to different roles than boys: Antonio, as the eldest would inherit the family estate and business on his Father’s death. To that end he had been schooled in mathematics, reading, writing and a range of outdoor pursuits. He had also been taught martial skills – war or some regional squabble was an event present possibility and it best to be ready. Arezzo, a former soldier himself whose successful career had established the family – felt that it built character. Plus you never knew when you might have to punch someone.  His brothers had been similarly taught, with adjustments made consistent with their life trajectories. Francesco, the youngest, would join the priesthood, so a  plenty of effort had been directed at his mastery of greek  and latin. Giorgio planned to enter business – he had well thought out plans to purchase higher quality wool from England and sell it into the Florentine textile industry. Federigo planned to follow in his Father’s steps and join a contract company.
Girls on the other hand would be expected to learn the necessary skills to manage a household. That is, the management of servants, overseeing households accounts and seeing to the raising of children. What skills they were tutored in beyond these would be up to their parents, but they would certainly not learn to fight, shoot or deport themselves in any but the gentleless and most pious ways.
And, perhaps if their father had re-married or taken a greater interest in the raising of his children, things may have turned out differently. Some ten years ago their Father had returned home with a child, summoned his sons and told them “This is your sister, Isabetta. Look after her”. Some female staff were employed shortly afterwards and provision made for a suitable education, but Isabetta showed little inclination and little was done to keep her apart from Arezzo’s boisterous sons. 
Isabetta’s introduction into the household passed through a number of stages. At first the boys were cautious and avoided her. As they grew used to her, they started to tease her and were pleased when she responded in kind: an ambush here was later met by a spirited retaliation. Finally, she was admitted into their circle, stealing food, evading teachers and enjoying a childhood spent on the family’s Tuscan estate.
In theory, Isabetta should never have learned to shoot. Antonio, however, loved archery and non of huis brothers showed any interest. For wont of a competitor, he elected to teach Isabetta so that we would at least have a companion on the range. Isabetta loved the bow. She was small for her age so would never have been able to compete as an equal a swordsmanship. They would always be able to use overwhelming force to break her defence, no matter how good. But with the bow, concentration and judgement were more important and she could more than hold her own.
Similarly, riding. While girl’s were expected to ride they were not expected to race. However, race Isbetta did and this Antonio thought he could use.
He presented the suggestion to Isabetta:
“That sounds like madness”, she said.
“I do not think so. The plan has something to recommend it, and I am sure you would enjoy the challenge”
This way true. As a girl of seventeen, Isabetta was increasingly conscious that the life of freedom she enjoyed might shortly come to an end. She had heard mumerings of marriage that filled her with horror; sooner or later, inflexible social convention would let Arezzo know what was expected of his daughter. It was unfortunate that the benign disinterest that Arrezzo had demonstrated throughout her childhood, and which had afforded her considerable freedoms, was now likely to see him following the least contentious path for her future. She was running out of time and the temptation to do something spectacular was strong.
“So, who would I ride?” asked Isabetta.
Antonio thought. “Probably that white Jennet…”
“Pearl? Isn’t she a little small?”
“I do not think that is a disadvantage. Consider the course: several circuits of the palazzo publico, the longest section is … hmm … no more than 300 strides. There is no time for a Courser or Destrier to build up speed, and the size of those horses is a handicap.”
“Did you not ride Maximus last time you competed?”, she queried.
“I did, and yes, he is a courser. The great family’s enjoy this opportunity to present their finest beasts – but I think this is a mistake. If you want to win you should select a small, nimble animal that trusts you and you can control. And whats more, you are small enough, dear sister, that even that little Jennet is going to hardly notice you atop it. What do you say?”
“I shall consider it, dear brother”
:
A level, well drained meadow was chosen for their practise. A row of poplars screened the field from most of the estate buildings, to reduce the risk of Arezzo or anyone else being disturbed by the sight of Isabetta in full gallop. Servants were causally instructed to mow the meadow according to a design that Antonio felt approximated the Piazza publico. Isabetta trotted Pearl around, chatting conversationally to the animal. Once the animal had adjusted to the unfamiliar field, she moved onto cantoring and finally a peculiar fast gait that was a Jennet’s best approximation to a gallop.
Isabetta’s speed increased day on day, as measured by a hour glass Antonio had obtained for this purpose. Adjustments were made; Isabetta’s stirupps were raised to afford her greater control. On the last days of their training, Antonio was accompanied by his brothers who had – against Giorgio’s and Francesco’s better judgement - started to take an interest in the enterprise. Antonio had found tabours, hand bells and other noisy devices and the plan was to use these to simulate the clamour of the Piazza. Isabetta stood with Pearl on what was nominally the starting line, a large rock some feet away designated the base of the Palazzo Vecchio. On top of this lounged Tom the elder, the elder epithet added to differentiate him from others from a long line of unimaginatively named male cats.
Antonio and his brothers started banging their drums and ringing their bells. Tom fled, but Isabetta was able to control Pearl, who shuffled uneasily, ears flat against his head. The experiment was repeated a few more times. Pearl remained manageable in the din and raced quickly when instructed to. Antonio considered them ready and they made preparations to travel to Siena.
The family naturally owned property in Siena; like other wealthy and ancient sienese, families a whole quarter of the city well under their nominal control. These days, this control extended mainly to the ownership of a Palazzo along with some small businesses. Most of the time, few people who pay much attention to Arezzo or his family if they were to be seen about their affairs. However, during the Madonna’s festivities, the Arezzo family once again became celebrities. The family’s symbol ( the Bee ) and the their colour ( green ) were everywhere. Making their way to the family Palazzo on ?? there were supportive heckles ( “come on the Bees!” ) and cheerfully disrespectful ( “How are you Granny!?“ – a reference to the tradition of the Palio competitor with the longest losing streak being termed “The Granny” ).
As soon as they arrived Arezzo was invited to parties and gathering and was soon whicked away in a cloud of old friends and new business. The children were left to their own devices. In previous years, Iasbetta had remained at the house while the men went to enjoy the festivities. This year was to be different.     
Isabetta was used to dressing as a boy, given that she had been doing this long before she knew she was dressing against the expectations of her sex. With the general commotion surrounding the celebration, Isabetta had no great difficulty leaving the family home and getting onto the street. In keeping with tradition, Pearl had already been taken to a secret location in readiness for the Palio. Isabetta would go now to reassure the horse, check that the animal was well looked after and then – perhaps – explore the city a little. 
… Isabetta’s adventures in Siena?
The morning of the Palio; the horses and their riders paraded into the piazza to great cheers. There were loud shouts of support directed towards popular riders and houses, banners in the house colours were waved and drums were beaten. Except for the narrow strip around which the race would take place, the  piazza was crowded. The poor and low born stood around the edges of the track – while these afforded an excellent view they were by far the most dangerous place to stand. It was not just the rider’s who were exposed to danger; if the horsers should bolt they would easily crush or injure anyone in their path. This happened frequently, but was, in general all considered part of the fun. The wealthier members of Sienese society watched from wooden platforms that had been built in the centre of the oval square. Others watched from the balconies and windows surrounding the high buildings that surrounded the square, and the wealthiest would observe proeedings from the gallery of the Palazzo Publico.
The race did not start immediately; after the riders were assembled it was necessary for the horses to be blessed by the bishop of Siena. The image of Maria di Provenza was then paraded around the circuit, at the head of the parade the bishop followed, followed by eminent priests and important lay figures who had been invited, or paid, to participate. Then a short mass mass was said and the race offered to Maria as a thanks for the love and support she continued to show the city. Quite why anyone thought the holy virgin would enjoy a short and extremely dangerous urban race was a mystery lost in antiquity. 
The riders had to wait while all this went on, which at least gave them a chance to pacify their anxious animals. Although the day was likely to be warm, the early hour and the high buildings cast shade over the half of the square in which they stood. Were that not the case, thirst would add further to the discomfort of the riders and horses. Ten riders would participate in this year’s palio; this decision automatically included horses from those of the fifteen houses that had not competed in the preceding year. The remaining three had been drawn by lot some months ago in an earlier ceremony. House Arezzo had its base in the Torre quarter which not participated last year and so was competing on that basis, along with riders from the Wave, Montone, Panther, Forest,  She-Wolf, Owlet and Dragon quarters. Chosen by lot were the Goose, Caterpillar and Eagle quarters. Each horse had, like Peal, been costumed in a elaborate gear bearing the emblem of the quarter. Horses had also been painted with dyes and pigments in the quarters colours. The rules of the Palio allowed whips to be applied not only to one’s own horse but to the horse of one’s competitors – a strategy that could be used to unseat a rider but this was not always to the an enmy’s advantage and it was entirelyh possible for a horse to cross the finish line  riderless. It was one of the reasons why Antonio did not worry much about Isabetta’s gender being discovered – whether women were allowed to ride in the Pailio did not change the fact that winning was assigned to the horse that passed the finish line – whether that horse had a rider was an irrelevance. 
Isabetta waited bareback within the center of the group; her gender was now in the open and there was interest that Torre – sick of being the Granny for so low – was trying something desperate and innovative to snatch a long overdue. The touts did not seem overly impressed, however, and Torre was still ranked as an outsider, with only Owlet ranked lower. This assessment was largely based on the poor quality of Owlet’s animal – an unfortunate last minute change imposed when the original beast had been injured.
The riders waited anxiously for the signal, which came in the form of a powder charge dentonated from the ballistrade of the Palazzo Vecchio. A huge cheer went up; Pearl reared up, ears flat against his head. Isabetta resisted the temptation to pull harder on the rein, instead pulling sharply with her right hand reign to pull the frightened horse back to the ground. Owlet’s horse paniced totally, and attempted to escape into the crowd. The rider stayed on, desperate not to be thrown into the maelstrom of hooves that marked the races start.
The other six hosres, along with Pearl, galloped onto the steeply cantered course. Turf and straw had been lain to soften the impact against the ground to protect both the stone tiles and the horses. However, the going was still hard and Isabetta keenly felt every stride Pearl took. She was placed at the back of pack, with the lead taken by the black courser of dragon and the slightly smaller hazel course of Forest. This lead did not last, however. The horses were going fast and had no desire to stay within the boundaries of the square. On approaching via ?? one of the eleven streets feeding into the Campo, the horses sensed an escape and slammed through the crowds into the marginally emptier street beyond.  Pearl took the turn, clearly still unhappy but at least sensing what his rider intended and – being a horse and somewhat out of his depth – choosing to defer judegment to Isabetta. 
Ahead now, in this order from first top last, were Wave, She-Wolf, Panther and Montone. All the districts had historical enemies; in the case of Torre there’s was Eagle. Although Eagle were not participating, it would have made little difference if they were – their enmity was largely symboilic and served no function outside of the Pailio and a few other ritual events. The same could not be said for Wave and She-Wolf. The two districts had long history of hatred, grounded in some ancient feud. Normally this manifested itself insult trading and brawls, but occasionally it would interrupt into all about gang war between large groups of young men armed with clubs and attired in the colours of their district.
As they entered their second lap, Wave managed to pull level with She-Wolf and strike his mount hard across the head. The intention had presumably been to surprise the horse and unseat the rider. What happened was that a startled She-Wolf turned into the path of Wave, causing Wave to suddenly halt. Waves rider was unmounted and fell from the horse to the ground between the two animals. She-Wolf’s rider kicked and whipped his animal  to persuade it to continue. The horse was now pointing the wrong way down the track and shorly came nose to nose with a rapidly moving Panther. Panther slowed. 
Isabetta was lucky and the confused horses had crowded to  the left of the track, affording her enough space to ride Pearl past them. As she entered the third and final lap she was leading the field. The lead was narrow and it did not take the other horses long to catch up. Panther was now leading by a good few lengths and fast gaining. The crowds cheered – and for the first time for a long time a chant of “Tower! Tower!” could be distinctly heard over the general roar. Isabetta pushed her heels, in and practically shouting “Good horse! Good boy, you can do it”, urged her little Jennet on. 
Both horses crossed the line almost simultaneously, followed quickly behind the remainder of the pack. It was unclear who had won and some minutes passed before the officials announced that the winner was Torre. Panther’s rider grumbled loudly and angry jeers could be heard from a part of the square dominated by Panther members and supporters. But in general, the crowd seemed happy with the decision.  Torre, of course, were ecstatic. 
Now, though, Isabetta would have to deal with the aftermath.
:
Arezzo had experienced a tiring range of emotions that day. Initially, surprise that a woman was competing, followed by disbelief when told it was is own Isabetta, followed by shock when he realised it was. Then came fear as the dangerous spectacle unfolded, then – most unexpected – and overwhelming feeling of pride when she won.
Arezzo had been invited by a business associate to view the race from his comfortably appointed terrace overlooking the Campo. Arezzo, having been detained on other business, arrived late, only shortly before the race was to commence. This was fortunate in hindsight as he had little opportunity to process what was occurring before the short race finished. His associates congratulated him enthusiastically. While some embarrassment would accrue from the events of the day, Arezzo’s business mind quickly saw that the best route was to take full responsibility and state that this had been his plan from the outset. Winning the Palio was never going to do more harm than good to his affairs – simply winning conveyed divine approval and business  associates would be keen to attach their own interests to his, with the hope of sharing this blessing. More cynical associates would be impressed by his strategy and seek to work with him to take advantage of a devious and inventive mind. 
Arezzo accepted the congratulations and invited in all present to join him and his family for a night of feasting and celebration. An impish thought struck him.
“And Isabetta is as yet unbethrothed. Should any of you be seeking a match, it is something you may wish to consider..”.
:
So this is what its like to be  man, Isabetta thought.  The party was in full swiay at the Arrezzo Palace; much of the building proper had been given to the entertainment of gentry and the wealthy business associates who seeked to court the Arrezzo’s. The courtyard was the site of coarser revelry – hoards of Torre men had descended to celebrate todays victory. As was expected, large quantities of cheap wine had been sourced and the services of a butcher obtained to locate, slaughter and cook a pair of pigs. Various good natured competitions were in progress: wrestling, games of chance and boules. A well brought up woman should not really be in the company of so many drunken men, but todays events had thrown things out of joint, adding an atmosphere of misrule. As the winner of the palio, she should be trerated as a hero. If she was a man, she would no doubt have been carried threw the streets of Siena by men of the district, engaging in all manner of drunken revels. Being that she waqs  a woman this was not seen as an option, and she had initially been treated almost as a supernatural entity somewhat akin The Virgin; to be respected and venerated. Isabetta was not having it: still high from her earlier victory she joined the men in the courtyard, downed a leather cup of perhaps the nastiest wine she had ever drunk, and asked which man thought they could beat her at boules. 
To be fair, the situation while a chaotic celebration on the surface was comparatively proper. Both Antonio and Frederigo were on hand to guard her virginity, in the unlikely event that she couldn’t take care of herself. That and that many of the young men here had connections to Arezzo’s business contacts and were expected to be on their best behaviour. A little harmless flirting seemed to perfectly safe.   
The evening turned into night, people left, passed out from drink, or were carried away by friends. There were spontaneous songs, generally bawdy with a focus on the sexual and martial prowess of the Torre in contrast to the effeminate, flaccid and cowardly attributes of men from the other districts. Isabetta won more games of boules that she lost, and was taught a number of dice games by a merchant’s son from Rimini. But by early morning she was spent – Antonio, who feeling some fraternal responsibility for Isabetta, had remained relatively sober the entire evening – accompanied her into the Palazzo proper and summoned servants to get her to bed.
“Oh, and one thing”, said Antonio. “Take this”. He handed her a leather purse. Inside were a handful of florins, a substantial sum. “I felt I should take some risk, even if financial rather than bodily. And besides, the odds were excellent.”
“You placed a wager?”
“Yes, sister, I did. I promised the Virgin that I would give both you and her a share should you finish without harm. Here’s yours – I’ll settle with The Big Lady tomorrow. You are now a woman of means”
:
For house Arrezzo and the Torre district, the success in the Palio would enfuse the following year with optimism and pride. For Isabetta, the victory would be more short lived. The family were to return to their country estate in less than a weeks time. Before they left, Arezzo summoned Isabetta to his chamber.
“Isabetta, my dauighter, I cannot be angry with you” he said, resignedly. “Nor my sons, for that matter. What’s done is done – had I known what you had planned I would have forbade it, but now that it lies in the past and we are basking in the afterglow, all I can feel is pride”
“Thank you, Father”
“But the fact  remains, you are sixteen years…”
“seventeen, Father”
“… seventeen years, and I must consider your future.”
Isabetta tensed.
“I admit that I have not always arranged things to see that were raised in a proper fashion”
“Father, I have been as happy as any child could expect to be…”
“I am glad, but the fact of the matter stands that you are quickly becoming a woman. Now”. He paused. “I have plenty of money and land to put towards your dowry, so whoever you marry will be wealthy enough to keep you in comfort, have no fear of that”
“I…”
“And there is particular urgency. A year, maybe two even, but the sooner you are betrothed, the better, I think. And you will have some say, of a course” he added reasonably. “I will, though, insist that you curtail your more unwomanly pursuits. Men do not as a rule find such things attractive, although”, he smiled, “there were enquiries as to your availability following our recent adventure.”
“Enquires?”
“Nothing to be taken seriously under the circumstances. Business associates thinking they could secure better contracts with me if they offered to take my unruly daughter off my hands, that kind of thing. Anyway, please think on what I have said.”
The meeting over, Isabetta retreated to her chambers and cried angry tears.
:
Isabetta’s life was not the only one undergoing change. Over the following months, the boys were often absent: Antonio had been sent on a tour of neighbouring estates, Frederigo  and Giorgio had both joined military companies serving the northern Italian states. Francesco spent an increasing amount of time in Rome, studying at the library and understanding the byzantine power structures which he would need to master to succeed in the church. Isabetta remained at the Villa, unethusiastgically  learning the skills that would make her an adequate wife.
Francesco had always been her favourite. He was closest to her age and of a scholarly disposition. He had little interest in fighting and preferred to pour over his books. There were few books at home, so Francesco preferred so spend more time in Rome. He had, he said, found a teacher – some Vatican eminence who had taken a shine to him –and was increasingly working under his direction. Francesco assured her that there was nothing deviant in their relationship as the aging scholar simply needed a willing pupil to compensate for his failing eyesight. 
A few months after this first meeting with his mentor, Francesco returned to the Arezzo villa unexpectedly. He was not stopping, just breaking his journey and taking an opportunity to visit Isabetta. He was, he explained, on a mission of great significance, charged with delivering a package to a person of importance in Florence. Francesco was excited, but, Isabetta sensed, also nervous and perhaps frightened.
“This person, who is he?”, asked Isabetta.
“I have been charged with keeping it a secret.”, replied Francesco. “Although, in truth,” he continued, “I suspect the name I have been given is false, to protect the personage” 
“Protect? From what..?”
“To protect his identity, should I be apprehended and pressed to reveal the name”
Pressed, thought Isabetta, has sinister implications. “And the package?”
“I do not know its contents, and have been forbidden to look.”
“Francesco, I do not like the sound of this. It hints of danger”
Franceso smiled grimly. “Danger, says my bareback riding little sister! Please, understand, if I complete this task, I will be in line for great favour. This is a great opportunity for me; unlike my brothers, or you, I must make my own way in the world..”
“Like me!?”, she scowled angrily. “Like me? To be pensioned off to some wealthy lord on minor merchant, to have his babies and keep his servants in check? You think that is a happy position for me?”
“I am sorry”, Francesco apologised, “I misspoke. Please let us not talk more of this, I would like this evening to be a pleasant one”
:L
Francesco left in the early morning. Arrangements had been made for him to travel with a group of wool merchants. The meeting place was a way marker on the old roman road between siena and Florence. The road should be safe enough, given the amount of money both city states demanded from their respective regions, but Francesco was keen on availing himself of the additional protection a large group would afford. Francesco waved a cheery good bye as he rode through the gates of the Arezzo villa into the Tuscan countryside. 
It was the last time Isabetta was to see her brother. Days later came the terrible news that Francesco had been found murdered at an Inn on the Florence road. The Inn keeper had been unable to the prevent the  group he had been travelling with from departing, but the Justice who was ultimately summoned saw no reason to suspect them. The most likely explanation was that he had surprised a thief or thieves who had subdued and killed him. Such incidents were not unheard of. The representative of the justice who brought the news assured the family that the perpetrator would be found shortly and brought to justice. Beyond that he could only offer his condolences and a promise to pray for the dead boy.
The family were plunged into grief. Practical arrangements for the funeral were made:  Francesco  was to be intered the body within the crypt of the SomeName church, where members of the Arezzo family had traditionally been buried for hundreds of years.  Messangers were dispatched to bring this tragic news to the Arezzo boys. Isabetta for her part, swung between grief and anger. She abandioned her domestic lessons and shut herself away. She was certain that Francesco had not been killed by a passing robber. No mention had been made of any mysterious package and nothing unusual had b een returned with Francesco’s body. 
Mourning lasted a month and during that time little was expected of her beyond attendence at the  daily masses in service of Francesco’s soul. Compounding her misery further was the fact that this terrible event had seemed to galvanise her father to the plan for fixing her future. Throughout the summer months noble or wealthy families paid their respects to the family. If Arezzo considered any of the visitors a suitable match he made sure Isabetta was made presentable. Isabetta remained courteous but did nothing top encourage her potential suitors. Nevertheless, she was sure negotiation was taking place out of her hearing. 
As she feared, her life of freedom was drawing to a close and a future of comfortable domestic servitude was gradually materialising in its place. On top of that, her brother’s murder still tormented her. The killer, had, of course been caught. Once the justice had been informed that the dead boy’s father was a man of importance, a perpetrator was quickly apprehended, sentenced and hung in the SomeTown piazza publico. From the viewpoint of the authorities the unfortunate matter was closed. Her Father was noty entirely satisfied with the outcome – the was no real evidence that the man in question had been in the area at the time and the nature of the crime was inconsistent with the road side banditry he usually favoured. But, with no reason to suspect otherwise, they accepted that Francesco had been the victim of an opportunistic crime and accepted the outcome.
Isabetta, knowing more, found it harder to be so easily satisfied. If only, she thought, I could speak to Francesco’s travelling companions, maybe I could learn something. But how?  
 Travelling alone was out of the question. As a young woman it would be dangerous and draw far too much unwanted attention. She could, of course, disguise herself as she had done before, but to sustain such a disguise over a period of days or weeks would likely be impossible. To this end she needed help, and to this end she had one asset that few other women possessed: Money. No one who worked on the estate could be hired, as they would immediately report her to her Father. She devised a plan.
Arezzo’s was surprised to learn of his daughter’s desire to take a pilgrimage to the shrine of St Anthony in Florence:
“Father, the last few months have been hard, and you have been kind to me. I feel that if I am to be the daughter you deserve I should seek the intercession of the saint to aid me find my way to serving you better – I have not always been as cooperative as I should in aligning myself with your goals for my betterment. Please let me make the pilgrimage and return a better dauighter”
The pilgrimage would last only a few days and would pass by the Inn where Francesco was killed, and she would take an opportunity to stop there and pray for him.  Arezzo agreed, believing that Francesco’s death had caused Isabetta to meditate on her behaviour and emerge mature and obedient. Arrangements were made: Arezzo knew of a suitable woman to accompany Isabetta as companion and chaperone. The two of them would take a small cart – a modest transport appropriate for pilgrims – and be accompanied by a trusted body guard from Arezzo’s household staff. While not yet propertyly autumn, the nights were drawing in and travel was becoming more dangerous. Still, a small party would attract little attention and the guard was confident that he would be able to deal with any trouble.
On the day of departure the small cart was loaded with chest and barrels holding the clothing and provisions they would need for the journey, as well as gifts for the mother superior of the convent where the women would be staying. The cart was then covered by canvas tarpaulin. Supervising the loading of the cart was Lady Hawkwood, who would be Isabetta’s companion on the journey. She had arrived the preceding day and had been accompanied by two men boasting the livery of the “White Company”.  These men, their escort completed, had departed at first light this morning. Lady Hawkmoor herself was dressed modestly, although the materials from which her modest clothes were fashioned were clearly the best. She net wore her hair in right bunches held inside a net of silver gauzework. She was younger than Isabetta had expected – probably in her early thirties. Isabetta had expected someone more matronly – beyond child bearing and eager to lecture the young on true path to salvation. Lady Hawkmoor greeted Isabetta cheerfully.
They set off in mid morning, with the plan of reaching San Casciano by evening. The route would take them largely through farmland and there was likely to be little danger. As they approached San Casciano the road passed close to woodland; this had been a popular source of ambushes in the past, but increased vigilance on the part of the Florentine city state had attenuated them to near nothing and attacks were unheard of in day light.
Isabetta sat next to Lady Hawkmoor in the cart while their Body guard, Gaciomo, rode ahead keeping a close key on the road. Lady hawkmoor was a cheerful companion and knowledgeable about the terrain they were passing through, happily telling Isabetta  about the history of some ruin, or of some battle that had taken place here in antiquity. She was quite unlike any other woman Isabetta had previously met – apparently free from the constricting social expectations that besieged her. Isabetta felt compelled to ask:
“Pardon my impertinence, but are you married, your ladyship?” 
“I am”, laughed Lady Mary, “to a fine gentleman”. She paused, and grinned. “Actually, an utter rogue. But an equitable match all the same.”
“How so, my lady?”
“He handles practical matters and leaves the money to me – I operate as his proxy in business and receive the same respect that he does himself. Which suits me very nicely”
At midday they rested and lunched on fruit, bread and cured meats. The combination of food and the rocking of the  cart send Isabetta to sleep, a sleep she was ungraciously rowsed from by a sharp lurch of the cart. Lady Hawkmoor herself fell from the cart and hurt her ankle. She cursed loudly in a manner that somewhat shocked Isabetta. She realised that the cart had slipped into an unseen pothole and damaged left front wheel. The damage was not serious and once the cart was freed took only a couple of hours to make right. Gaciomo was concerned, however:
“If we continue we will be ride along the forest at dusk. I doubt there will be any trouble, but it is a risk” he fretted. “Nor, though, do I like the thought of making camp in the open”
“Well”, said Lady Hawkmoor, “you know best. But if we are to press on then the decision best be made quickly”
Gicaomo decided that continuing was the best course; it was not far he felt and they should clear the trees while the light was still good. But by the time they approached the trees, night was rapidly falling. 
“It looks  like we should noty go further tonight”, said Lady Hawkmoor, “I propose we turn about and  make camp down the road. We passed an animal shelter of some kind some half hour ago I propose –“
There was a loud thud as something impacted Giacomo. Without a further sound, he fell from his horse. Figures emerged from the gloom and approached the cart. Isabetta was frozen in shock, but Lady Hawkwood raised her arms in a signal of surrender. Three figures approached them, one briefly inspecting Giacomo’s body. He gave the body a kick and then nodded at the leader. The three men wore equipment consistent with the ? company. One carried the shortbow that had been used to kill Giacomo, the other two carried axes. They had the red weathered faces of men who been living in the open for sometime.
“What do we have here?”, growled the leader.
“We are simple pilgrims on our way  to Saint Anthony’s shrine. We have little money – take it and let us be on our way”, demanded Lady Hawkmoor.
“Pilgrims, eh?”. He came closer to the cart and looked at inspected Lady Hawkmoor. “Well dressed; better than the average at any rate. Lads -,”. He addressed his fellows. “I think someone might pay to have these two returned..”. He grinned nastily, showing black and missing teeth. “…unsoiled”
The contents of the cart were removed and the horse unhitched. The cart itself was dragged to the side of the road and concealed with aim of not alerting future travellers. The women themselves were marched,  Lady Hawkmoor hobbling on her injured leg, up hill in darkness to the ruins of a small village. This village, in common with many like it, had been emptied by the plague. For whatever reason, life had never returned here and it now served as a base of the small gang. The women were imprisoned in the stone tower that stood at the center of the village. In the distant past, this thick walled structure had once served as a basic fortress to which the villagers would have retreated in times of crisis. Originally, it would have had three floors, but these had long collapsed along with the roof.  The only entrance to the structure was through a crude door. This was a more recent addition, although more likely the work of herdsmen who may have used the building as a temporary pen.
“Isabetta? Child, are you okay?”, said Lady Hawkmoor.
“Yes”, Isabetta heard herself say faintly in the darkness.
“Good. We must escape – do you understand?”, Lady Hawkmoor said coldy. “To our advantage: we are women and they will not see us as a threat. They are only three, and look weak. I do not think they have fared well of late. To our disadvantage: they are armed and still stronger than us. There situation makes them desperate and we should expect no consideration”
“What”, Isabetta said weakly, “What should we do?”
“The following.  I will start screaming about the Pain in my leg. They are nervous of being discovered, so one of the number – the little one with the bow, I imagine – will come to quiet me. When he enters you will surprise and subdue him”
“Me?”
“Who else? I would do it myself, but my damn ankle is twisted and I do not think we can wait”. She started looking around, squinting in the gloom. “Look for something long¸ something that extends your reach. A branch would do. Or something sharp that you can use to stab or slash”
“I…”
“All you have is surprise, so you must hurt him and hurt him hard. You will not have a second chance, but you will not need one”
A tree had taken root inside the tower and with some effort Isabetta removed a branch. She presented it to Lady Hakwkmoor who examined it critically and pronounced it suitable. She directed Isabetta to stand in darkness to the side of the door. The door entered the tower through a narrow passage in the thick wall and the view to the tower’s interior was very limited from the outside. With Isabetta in position Lady Hawkmoor began to scream in the most chilling fashion imaginable, 
“My Leg, My leg! Dear God, I can see the bone the protruding! Dear God, the pain! The pain!”
There was loud banging on the door. “Shut the fuck up!”
Lady Hawkmoor continued.
“Right. Sav – go and shut that whore up”, they heard the leader say.
A moment passed, then the door opened.  And Sav – the archer, as Lady Hawkmoor had suspected – entered the tower.He marched straight towards Lady Hawkmoor. As he passed Isabett’s hiding place she swung the branch as hard as she could and the back of his head. It struck. Sav managed a “Fuck!” – completely drowned by Lady Hawkmoors screaming – and stumbled a pace or so forward, began to turn only to be struck with Isabetta’s second blow. He fell dazed to the ground in front of Lady Hawkmoor. Then with practised ease the Lady wrapped a length of cord around his neck. His body shock for a few moments then lay still.
“Sorry, a detail I neglected to mention. Mercy, unfortunately, is a luxury for the strong.”. She listened attentively. “Let us go. Can you shoot?”, she nodded to towards the dead man’s bow. Isabetta nodded. “Take the bow and quiver– my eyesight is not good in the dark.”
The two women cautiously exited the tower. A fire had been lit inside another the decayed buildings, and around it they could see the figures of the two bandits. No doubt they were examining their meagre haul while they considered what to do with their hostages. Isabetta did not need Lady Hawkwood to explain the situation top her: while they could start back to the road or hide in the hills, they would not make it far without transport. Soon the two men would question what was taking their fellow so long and investigate. Then they would be hunted and most likely caught. She notched an arrow and pulled the bowstring to her chin. Both men were easy targets; she chose the leader first and sent an arrow flying into his neck. She notched a second. “What the.. Sav?” he shouted. He scrambled for his weapon, but failed to place himself in cover. Her second arrow hit him in the small of the back and he too collapsed beside the fire.
Lady Hawkwood had been moving towards the men’s camp before the second arrow had been fired. Isabetta followed her and looked at the dead men with cold detachment. It had been remarkably easy to solve this problem, if only the other problems that faced her could be so easily dealt. Her ladyship quickluy searched the men and recovered their stolen money. All their other possessions were still ion the abandoned cart. She expertly weighed Isabetta’s purse, smiled and returned it to her.  
There was no evidence that the band consisted of anymore than the three men they had dispatched. Still, they had no desire to stay there. Giacomo’s horse was tied up nearby and there was sufficient light to make out the narrow track they had followed to the village. Lady Hawkwood rode bareback as they descended the hill; the road was poor and the horse was unhappy to be taking this route in the dark, but they reached the road without incident and by dawn were reached San Casciano.
It was agreed that would not discuss how they had escaped from the thieves. No one would question that they had simply escaped by virtue of good luck and the death of the thieves – once the bodies were discovered – would likely be attributed to a dispute over spoils. The Town’s justice instructed his wife to take care of them and promised to send a detachment of the town militia to deal with robbers and recover the body of their companion. They gratefully thanked him for his Christian hospitality and promised to remember him in their prayers when they reached their destination. Cautiously, Isabetta broached the subject of her murdered brother. Yes, the Justice replied, he remembered the case. He himself, he proudly asserted, had ensured the perpetrators had met swift justice. I had been told, she lied, that one of his companions was present when he passed. I would like to thank them, if possible – did he have any knowledge of where they might be found? I did not know that, but yes, he said, at least some of the party could be found at the “il Agnosti” Florentine Inn.

“So”, said Lady Hawkwood. “Are we to continue on our way? The good sisters await”
“My Lad”, began Isabetta, “There is something I have been meaning to say..”
“That this pilgrimage is a farce? That you intend to make the most perfunctory of visits, if visit at all”, teased Lady Hawkwood. “No, it does not come as a surprise. I had my suspicions from start, and our adventure would seem to confirm it:  deeply women ladies do not typically kill three grown men, without some affection of the spirit…”
“My lady, if you think I am unmoved by our encounter..”, Isabetta started to correct her.
“Moved? Prehaps. But you are far from being a snivelling wreck, which, in my experience is not so typical. What is your plan?” she asked directly.
“I intend to establish the facts of my brothers death, and, if God wills it, bring his murderers to justice”
“Very noble”, she said slightly mockingly. “But I would advise you return home and go no further. We were lucky, you understand – had there been more men, had we not had a bow, we would like as not be dead now.”
“I thank your Ladyship for her good council”
“Which you intend to ignore. Very well. And another thing”. She leaned forward conspiratorially. “I am no Lady. But say something often enough and confidently enough and people are apt to believe you. I would advise you do likewise”. She leaned back. “I will accompany you the rest of the way to Florence and wish you well. Should you be in need of paid assistance, please ask for “Sir John” at the “Bright Star”.  He is my husband and able to offer you practical assistance – for a price, of course.”
:
The site of the work was grand foyer of the Plazzo Albizzi in the ? quarter of Florence. The Palazzo had been the seat of the Albizzi family for centuries and each generation had added to it and decorated it according to their tastes and the fashions of the era. The grand foyer was the most public part of the building so the commissioned Fresco’s principle purpose was to impress visitors with wealth, sophistication and piety of the house’s owner. The subject – “The Fall” – was simple and accessible. There was no value, Albegio d’Albizzi felt, in displaying a work so loaded with subtle meanings that his visitors would miss the intention, or worse, take away some entirely unintended interpretation. The fresco was to consist of three panels – the rightmost depicted Eden before The Fall, the central, the temptation, and the leftmost, the expulsion. Eden was nearly complete, with only a few more details yet to be added. The image was dominated, naturally, by the figures of a idealized Adam and Eve. They stood against a very Tuscan backdrop. Florence was clearly visible, as were various Albizzi estates. The border of the central image was dominated by objects signifying Albizzi interests, such as wool ( a lamb, which could also helpfully signify The Christ ), livestock and cloth. Not represented, somewhat ironically given that it was their principle source of wealth, was banking. Usury was still a sin in the eyes of some. While it was no secret that the Pope was a customer of the northern Italian banks, there were still quite senior people who it would be best not to remind from whence the Albizzi wealth came.
The middle panel showed Eve in the process of taking an apple from a tree, while watched by a grey serpent. The configuration of the apples in the image would suggest only one thing to a man of Florence – the balls of the Medici. Albegio smiled to himself; he was looking forward to how this would be received. The final panel showed the two protagonists of genesis being expelled from Eden. They were now hollow eyed, starved and frightened looking. The backdrop was still Tuscany, but the land was dark and bare and itself Florence was ablaze. The meaning of the panels was clear, obeying the Albizzi family would lead to prosperity and peace. Follow others – the medacious Medici, for example – and terror and famine would follow. 
The triptych was almost finished. There remained a few final touches for the artisans to apply – the more expensive pigments and some additional details. The work was excellent and everything Albegio had hoped for. It was almost a pity that he was not going to pay for it.  
 :
The painting of the fresco had been begin several months ago. Carlo had been requested to attend on Albegio d’Albizzi to discuss the commission of a new work for the Palazzo. Carlo has shown the large wall in the grand foyer where the painting was to be made. Carlo was pleased as this would be the largest commission he had taken on to data and would finally establish his reputation. Carlo inspected the wall in a studied manner, eager not to display too much enthusiasm. The wall was currently covered by an existing fresco, of The Life of John the Baptist, Carlo believed. Many of the colours had faded and the prevailing colour was a kind of yellowy brown, interspersed with patches of black where some alchemy had caused the pigments to darken rather than fade. It did not suggest wealth, and Carlo could understand why Albizzi sought to refresh it.
“The subject is ‘The Fall’, your lordship?”, he asked in what he hoped was a business-like manner.
“Yes, three paintings. The Garden of Eden, is to be here on the left of the door,  The Temptation above the door, and The Expulsion here on the right.”  Demonstrated Albegio. “The two large images – those to the sides of the door – will extend from here – “. He indicated a point on the wall at about hip height. “To here”. Indicating a level some three or feet below the ceiling.
“To ensure they are framed by the light during the better part of the day?, very wise my lord” flattered Albizzi. The scheme was a reasonable one, though, and the south facing windows opposite would ensure that the large fresco was beautifully lit.
“I appreciate that there are many details”, continued Albegio, “but is the scale of the work within your capacity?”
“My lord, it will be a major undertaking, but, I think …”
“Good. As to payment – “
“If your lordship would allow me, I will need to think on this matter ..”
“- payment will be made on the completion of the work”
Carlo was taken aback. In that moment his dreams had turned to ash. “My lord, I will need to purchase paper and pigments, enlist workers”, he stammered, “I will not be able to meet these expenses from my own coffers”
“Regrettable”, sighed Albegio, “Still, I should be able to find other craftsmen, gifted with greater liquidity. I have no intention to pay common craftsmen in advance”
“I am sorry, my lord, nor should you. I mispoke”, apologised Albegio. I must have this job he thought, this will be the making of me. “I shall be happy to take this commission, I am sure I will be able to find the funds to see the work through to its conclusion”.
:
Over the following days the composition of the work was settled, apprentices were hired and materials purchased. It was in this industry that Alegno found himself. Alegno had made a partial peace with Adolfo, who had yet to pay him back. He was, however, hard to dislike and of an evening would entertain and inform Alegno with stories from the Florentine underworld. 
“So what I should I know about these criminal gangs?”,  asked Alegno over a cup of wine. They were both seated on a bench outside the tavern “il Agnosti”. Although it was getting late in the year, it was not yet cold and  Alegni enjoyed watching the city life which, until so recently, had been alien to him.
Adolofo looked around cautiously and lent in. “There are seven gangs. They call themselves  ‘The Guilds’ – in mockery of the seven city guilds –or sometimes just ‘The Seven’. Each gangs presumes to control part of the city and they don’t like inderpendents like me operating on their territory”
“Independents?” queried Algeno.
“independent artists and businessmen –“
“Ah, thieves, extortionists, and such? Go on”, grinned Alegno.
“Er yes. So I have to be careful and move around, not spend too much time in anyone place. If I do that, they tend to leave me alone” continued Adolfo.
 “And the wacth and miltia leave them alone?”
“In truth, they spend most of their energies fighting amongst themselves. Occasionally, though, they will rob someone of importance and the city takes action”
“The hangman is kept busy for a week or so, then things return to normal. Well, let’s get back …”
Alegno and most of the other apprentices slept in the studio. It was cheap, and safe since Carlo now employed a watchmen ( a drunken old soldier, so unlikely to be terribly effective, but perhaps better than nothing ) to guard the materials they had been assembling in support of the Albizzi fresco. The most valuable materials were handled only by Carlo himself. This included the most valuable raw ingredients – the Lapis Lazuli that would be ground to make the ultramarine pigment. These stones had only recently become available and the rich blue they yielded was now much in demand amongst the nobility. By using generous amounts of this blue, a house was able to overtly demonstrate its wealth and win the awe and jealousy of the populace. The potential vulgarity of this display was often attenuated by using the costly pigment for the gowns of The Virgin, so that commissioner of the work could claim that he was  using his money to glorify God, rather than for his agrandisment.
Before dawn, Alegno and his fellow apprentices  began to load wooden frames onto carts. These frames would later be assembled and form the scaffolding on which the artisans would work. On arrival at the Palazzo, carpenters took the frames and begin to assemble them within the foyer. Alegno looked at the twenty foot scaffold with apprehension. He gave it at cautious shake. It wobbled alarmingly.  A ladder was fetched and lent against the gantry. Alegno stepped gingerly onto first wrung. The structure held firm and Alegno climbed.
Alegno sat crouched on top of the scaffold, head nearly touching the ceiling. Adolfo sat next to him. The first task the two had to complete was roughening the existing plasterwork. This would allow the fresh plaster to stick and it would be onto this that the pigments would be placed. However, before this could be done, the upper surface of the existing the plasterwork would have to be removed. Alegno and Adolfo were working at the top; two other apprentices worked on the shelf below, and two more on the floor below them.
The work was not physically hard, but the lime based plaster irritated his chest and eyes. He coughed and felt his lungs burn. He resigned himself to the discomfort and continued with the unpleasant work. Both Algeno were glad, when, finally they were invited to lunch on ale and bread. 
There was no need to clear the entire wall. The plan was to complete each of three paintings individually, moving the scaffold along the wall. Once the first space had been prepared, the outline of the composition was sketched in charcoal. They had chosen to complete the The Expulsion first – by dint it of its more muted colours it would be the cheapest in terms of pigmentation. If mistakes were made, then they could be cheaply corrected. Hopefully, any lessons learned would carryu over to the more expensive panels. Carlo himself worked on the outlining, frequently consulting the great stack of notes and studies that acted as the guide for the work. Carlo was too large to occupy the upper platform, so it was Sigismondo who took the task of drawing the upper outlines. The process was slow and required Carlo to frequently step back and check that the drawing on the wall matched the desired pattern. and Adolfo and Alegno role’s were largely relegated to assisting Carlo from and onto the first platform. 
By the end of the first day, the outline had been partially completed to Carlo’s satisfaction and the plan of the arrangement had largely survived intact. The only alteration of any note had been suggested by Sigismondo, who had advised that the heads of the parents of mankind be rendererd larger than originally planned, so as to compensate for the effect of forshortening. This was done and Carlo announced the effect more pleasing.
On the second day, the lime plaster was mixed and applied to the wall. This too was the job of Alegno and Adolfo, amongst others. The plaster obscured the line drawings so, it was now necessary to pick out the outline again on the wet lime. The ingenious process for doing this used a number of paper tiles, together the same in area as the final image. These too held a charcoal outline ( corrected to agree with the initial prototype ) , but this outline had been further pricked out with a needle. With great care it was possible to register these pages against the wall and knock a bag of soot against it. This left a faint dark outline on the plaster which could now be filled with pigment.
This was a more technically demanding job. Adolfo, miscreant though he was, had skill as a pigmentist and painter. He had mastered many techniques for creating tones and shades from a palette of eight of so base pigments. Once again Alegno took his place next to Adolfo at the top of unsturdy scaffold. Algeno took a pinch of yellow powder on his spatula. Nervously he considered the outline of Adams head. He applied the powder to the wet plaster. They worked quickly – the plaster would dry in eight hours. If they had no finished by then, new plaster would have to be applied.  
At end of the second day, not all the expected work had been completed, and what had been completed was pronounced unsatisfactory. Carlo was annoyed at the waste of materials, but there was nothing that could be done and the painting would be redone the following day. 
After the second day, the project fell into a regular rythm. Each day – save Sundays - they would arrive at the Palazzo at first light to be admitted by the Albizzi servants. They would reapply plaster to the corrections agreed the previous day and rework the image. Work proceeded top to bottom and after two weeks of work the first image was complete, save for some details that would be applied when the entire fresco had been finished. They then continued to repeat the procedure for Eden and The Temptation. While mistakes were made and corrected, the painting seemed to taking shape. Albigio, during his regular inspections, said little but seemed satisfied. Carlo, however, was becoming more agittated even as the work approached completion.
On the first day of work on the final – and most important – image, Carlo arrived in the Foyer dishevelled and clearly the worse for drink. He stumbled into Frederico, who was working on grinding  pigment ( WHICH? ) for the bodies of the two principles. Carlo fell, and got angrily to his feet.
“Watch your feet, you fool!”, he growled.
“I am sorry, master. “,  apologised Frederico.
“You should be. You all should be; any bunch of fool;s should have long fiished this – “. He swung out his arm in a gesture intended to take in the triptych. He misjudged, and caught the side of the flimsy gantry. He looked in horror as, it swayed towards the wall of the fresco, rebounded and came crashing down into the foyer. 
It was unfortunate that no one had been atop it at the time. Frederico had been most in its path, but had lucklily escaped injury. Albizzi servants rushed to see what the commotion was, but were quickly assured that it was a simple accident and no cause for concern. Carlo, slumped, drained and mortified.
“Dear God, what have I done?”, he moaned.
“Nothing”, said Alessandro, “No one is hurt. Carlo, go home.”
“Yes”, he said weakly, “I will”.
The scaffold was wrecked, so little work could proceed this day or the following. Alegno and Adolfo retired to the “il Agnosti”. Shortly they found themselves joined by Alessandro. 
“Alessandro”, asked Algeno. “What is troubling Carlo? Is it the project?”
“No”, sighed Alessandro, “Carlo always gets worked up towards the end of a project. He has an idea of perfection in his head that reality cannot match.  That is all”.
For some reason, Alegno could not help but feel Alessandro was lying.
:
With the platform re-erected, work could once again proceed. Unlike the earlier two paintings – The Temptation and The Expulsion – large parts of the background of Eden had been left unfilled. This was because they were to be coloured using ultramarine. Unlike the other pigments, these would be applied to the dry plaster. Ultramarine would be used to colour the sky above Florence. To use something so valuable for much a mundane role would be regarded as extravagant, which was Albizzi’s intention.
Late in the evening the artisans returned to Carlo’s studio The ground floor door rocked on its hinge. Alegno tensed and stealthily approached the door. Adolfo and Sigismondo followed. Alegno signalled for quiest and listened for any suspicious sounds. Movement could be heard from the upper storey, followed by the thuds of heavy objects being pushed or thrown.
“Trouble”, whispered Algeno. Sigismondo smiled evily, drew his dagger and strode purposefully for the stair. Alegno shrugged and followed.
The upper storey held Carlo’s office and a small pierre-e-trerre. The ceiling was low and a damp smell lingered. As they entered a short corridor joining the top of the stair to the office, the sound of movement ceased. Algeno held his breath and prepared for a fight. There then came a much lounder crack, followed by a clatter of tiles.
“Quick!”, cried Sigismondo, now running to towards the office, “He’s gone out the window!”
The boys burst into Carlo’s office. Never tidy, the room was now in utter disarray. Paper was everywhere, fluttering in the light breez coming from the open shutters. Sigismondo threw himself to the window and looked out across the red tiled roofs. Anticipatying the chase, Sigismondo eagerly searched the moon lit cityscape for any sign  of the intruder. There was sign beyond broken and loose tiles on the roof of the adjacent building. Sigismondo cursed.
Algeno surveyed the room. The thief – it seemed likely it has a single individual – had been Carlo’s large chest. The cotents of this had been tipped on the floor – mostly papers and a few books. Alegno inspected the chest. His curiosity was engaged by a panel on the side of the chest that had been evidently torn away. This suggested a secret compartment. The thief had, it would seem, kniwn of the existence of the compartment but not the manner of opening it. He drew his colleagues attention to it.
“What do you suppose was in here?”, he asked.
 “It could be anything.”, said Adolofo, “Money, most likely, or legal papers. I do not know”
“I do”, said Sigismondo. Between huis thumb middle finger glowed a brilliant blue lapis stone.
:
Alegno huirried to tell Carlo the terrible news. Alegno was worried that Carlo would take it badly. When he explained what had happened, Carlo flung his head into his hands. 
“Holy Jesus”, he moaned, “What have I done to deserve this luck!”
Alegno tried to reassure him. “It is only the stones, nothing else has been taken..”
“Only the stones! Do you know how much they cost? I am ruined! Ruined!”, he screamed.
“The work is almost complete, perhaps we could ask for payment now, or at least for the work already finished”, ventured Algeno.
“Oh we could try”, he whined , “but I already know the answer. Albizzi will insist on the terms of the contract – no payment until completion”
“So we must raise the money for the stones by some other means. It may take some time, but …”
“I do not have any time? Do you not understand? “, he wailed, “I have already missed several payments  and my creditors are getting impatient. I expect them to issue instructions to the justices at any moment.”
“And then?”, questioned Alegno.
“And then, boy, I am finished”, he stated emptily.
Carlo has right. The house Albizzi would extend no advance payment. A representative insincerely wished them luck securing funds to complete the work. From behind a flask of wine, Carlo accepted the news without emotion. Carlo now lived in the studio in a perpetual alcoholic fugue, seemingly resigned to his fate. 
“So, Adolfo”. Accused Sigismondo nastily, “How much did you get to sell out old Carlo? The man was a talentless drunk, mind you, but this is it a bit low even for a petty prick like you”
“Me? I had nothing to do with it – you’ve always despised Carlo, I wouldn’t put it past you just to have ruined out of spite”, he retorted angrily.
“Nevertheless”, said Alessandro, “Someone in the Studio is likely involved. The thief knew the stones were in the chest – someone must have informed him. Adolfo … “. He turned to the boy. “You must see that you are the obvious candidate. We know you have contacts with ‘The Seven’, and The Virgin knows what debts and obligations to them. Swear now on our holy mother that you had nothing to do with it.”
“I swear!”, shouted Aolofo, “I swear on Jesus, Mary and all the saints!”.
“Very well. I suppose I will accept that. And you two?”, he indicated Alegno and Sigismondo. 
The two men likewise swore.  
  “And I also swear on The Virgin that I knew nothing of this act”, Alessandro said finally. “Interesting”, he mused, “So either we are all blameless of one of us is lying.”
Not that it mattered much to Carlo. Only a couple of days passed before a policeman from the podetesta arrived to inform Carlo that charges of default had been brought against him. He was instructed to answer these charges at the Bargello the following day. 
:
Carlo was in a poor state the following morning, so Alegno chose to accompany him to the Bargello. The penalties for failing to appear when instructed to do so were severe, often many times more severe that the maximum penalty that could be imposed. It was therefore important that Carlo arrived in good time. 
There was no danger of being late. There was a long queue of defendents, most accompanied by friends or family members, a few escorted by plaintiffs. Adolofo, who had experienced Florentine justice in the past  had explained the procedure to Alegno:
“You stand in front of the panel and they read you the accusation against you. You then answer the charges, accepting or denying them. If you accept them, the judges vote on the penalty – nominally there is a prescribed penalty for each crime, but the judges have a lot of leeway. Thank fuck”
“Oh, so what were you accused of?”
“Sodomy”, grinned Adolfo. “Too bad I was guilty. For the money, of course”
“Of course. So what’s the penalty for that?”
“To be burned alive”
“Christ our Saviour! That seems … harsh”
“Well, in practice that is the maximum sentence. I got off with a fine and a promise not to do it again”
 “Oh, okay. That seems more reasonable. Anyway, the judges read the charges, you plead…”
“If you plead innocent, and there is no evidence, they’ll probably let you go. Sometimes they might rack you a bit just as a warning to keep out of trouble, though. Still, I for old Carlo it will be pretty cut and dried, I think”
Carlo was ushered into a small chamber in the Bargello. The three judges sat opposite on a slightly raised platform. Carlo, suffering from a hangover, felt his legs weaken. The centre judge, a bored looking middle aged man, read the accusation.
“You stand accused of Default of the sum of … ducats owed to the Medici Bank. How do you plead?”
“I accept the charge”, mumbled Carlo.
“Good”, said the judge, “The law is very clear in this case. As punishment you will be incarcerated for a term of no less than three weeks. During that time, your assets will be dissolved in repayment of your debt and to pay for your imprisonment. If insufficient funds are raised to meet repayment of the full balance, your creditors will be asked to advise on further sentencing. They may choose to have you released or keep you incarcerated until your family can raise sufficient funds to clear the debt”
Carlo nodded mutely. 
“Officer, take this man away – Next case”
:
The only prison in Florence was  Le Stince. While there were cell’s in the Bargello and Palazzo della Signora, these were simply holding cells where prisoners were kept pending sentences or interrogation. When imprisonment itself was to be the punishment, prisoners were sent to Le Stince. The idea of imprisonment as a punishment in itself was very much a Florentine idea and aligned with the mercantile nature of the city state. To deprive somone of freedom, the reasoning went, was to deprive them of the ability to engage in commerce, and so of wealth.
That was not to say that it was an easy punishment. The prison walls were nearly fifty feet high – far higher than the buildings inside. This kept the space within in almost perpetual shadow. There were no cells as such and prisoners were segregated on a building by building basis. Women were kept separate from men, as were children, the insane, petty criminals and serious criminals. This latter  category was for crimes that were deemed insufficiently serious to merit a capital punishment. This included violence short of murder, fraud, carnal relations with nuns and, of course, habitual sodomy.
Within each building the prisoners could mix freely. Carlo, along with other debtors, would be amongst the petty criminals. Many of these people would be imprisoned for only weeks or months and were generally well-behaved and friendly. The serious criminals were often imprisoned indefinitely, and were potentially violent and dangerous. Prisoners entered, hunched, through a low door to the side of the main gates. Carlo was brought through this door by the Podesta and transferred to the guards who ran the prison. Satisfied that he had no money or weapons he was escorted across the dark courtyard to the minor offenders building. The door was opened and he was thrust inside to begin his sentence.
:
Alegno returned dispirited from his experience of Florentine Justice. Both he and Adoldo had been living rent free at the studio for months. With Carlo in prison this would likely not last much longer. Whatever assets Carlo possessed would be seized and used to settle his default. He would have to find somewhere else to live. Adolfo, ever practical, did however have one good suggestion.
“Fuck it all”,. He cried determinedly, “Let’s get drunk!”
:
The prison guard marched Carlo across the over shadowed courtyard to the minor building. Carlo felt like a condemned man being walked to the scaffold. With effort he put one foot in from of another. The minor building was a two storey structure dwarfed by the prison wall. Narrow slits had been made in the walls in place of windows. It’s windows appearance reminded Carlo of a tomb. 
The courtyard was empty save for a group of three men. They sat in a narrow stripo of ephemeral sunlight playing dice. The largest man turned from the game to examine Carlo. His scarred and weathered face frowned in concentration. 
“Do I know you?”, he growled. “I do don’t I?”. His face contorted into an evil grin. “Your Carlo d’Florentine, aren’t you? The same that robbed me. Well, well”. 
Carlo was struck mute with shock. “Quiet, you”, shouted one of the escorts. “I’ll have no trouble on my watch”. The big man held up his hands in mock appeasement. “Don’t you worry your pretty head, I’m in no hurry.”. He winked at Carlo and slashed his finger across his throat. His friends burst into ugly laughter. Carlo felt faint and it was all he could do not to collapse.
They arrived at the communal cell. One guard opened the heavy wooden door with a heavy iron key. The second, younger, guard placed his hand on his sword as a precaution against trouble. Fetid air flowed through the open door. The smell was overwhelmingly of unwashed bodies and human shit. Carlo involuntarily put his hand across his nose and mouth. 
“Here you are”, said the older guard, without any malice. “Make yourself comfortable”. He gave Carlo a gentle shove. Carlo stumbled into the darkness of the Cell. 
The ground floor of the cell was very dark with only a little of the grey light penetrating from the outside. As Carlo’s eyes adjusted to the gloom, me was able to take in the contents of the room. There were about twenty crude cots lined. These were lined with straw of varying freshness. Some of the cots were occupied by men, engaged in sleeping, games or hushed conversation. The awake men stopped and inspected Carlo. Carlo collapsed on the bed nearest the door.
“Oi!”, shouted an angry voice. “Who said you could sit there?”
Carlo found himself looking at another large man. The man balled his fists and seemed ready for a fight. Carlo whimpered, lurched clumsily from bed and threw himself into a corner of the room. 
The angry man shrugged and returned to his game. Another man approached Carlo. He was young, blonde and would have been handsome save for the deep scar down his left cheap. He smiled at Carlo and held his arm out in welcome. Carlo gingerly took it. 
“Falco”, the man introduced himself, “Don’t mind Mr Lamb – he can be a bit touchy. And who might you be, sir, and what are you in for?”
“Carlo d’Florentine. Default”, muttered Carlo.
 “Oh how unfortunate, you  poor dear man”, said Falco flamboyantly. “In my case, it is sadly a case of mistaken identity”
“Bollocks!”, came a cheerful shout from deeper within the cell, “Fucking Sodomite!”. There was good natured raccous lagughter.
“Now”, said Falco, mocking affront, “Would I be with you good gentlemen, if I was guilty of that heinous crime? No I would not. I would be enjoying the company of The Holy Family, over yonder”. He gestured towards the door.
“The Holy Family”, queried Carlo.
“You passed them on the way in”, replied Falco. “The large one is The Madonna, the little one The Infant, and the other one is The Carpenter. Nasty fellows”
“I knew him by another name”, remembered Carlo. “We were in business once. He thinks I cheated him”
“Oh. Well, in that case, you are as good as dead” said Falco matter-of-factly. Carlo shuddered. 
:
The boys had arrived at the “il Agnosti”  shortly before  night fall. The tavern was surrounded by men and women drinking wine, dancing and singing. The men for the most part were young artisans, soldiers and less wealthy merchants. The women were exclusively prostitutes. Since the clamp down on sodomy, prostitution had gone from being an illegal but more-or-less-tolerated activity, to one that was now properly regulated and taxed. The reasoning of the grand council that it was a shortage of sexually available women that turned men to sodomy was, in Alegno’s opinion, flawed.  But, as one for whom sodomy held limted appeal, he could not object to the increased supply of willing ladies. Alegno sat on a makeshift bench and took a long draught from his wine sack.
Adolfo flopped down next to Alegno. Alegno could see that he was alreay the worse for drink. He could not see his other friends: Sigismondo had departed some time ago in the company of two cheerful girls, Alessandro had long made his excuses and left. “What”, he said, “Are we going to do?”
“Dunno”, slurred Adolfo, “drink more wine?”
“Not now, you fool. In general. About Carlo, the work – is there anything we can do?”
“Alegno: Carlo will be alright”, Adolfo vacantly. “Bank will cut its loses and let him out when they realise he can’t pay. Might keep him in for a bit longer at their own expense, if they want to make an example of him”
“But what about us? I’ve no money – thanks to you – and I can’t join a guild. And we have no where to stay.”
Just then the owner of the tavern approached. “Did I hear one of you was called Alegno?”, he asked. “Got a message for someone matching your description”.
“A message?”, he said, surprised. Alegno paid the tavern keeper, who handed him a  folded and sealed letter. He looked at it with puzzlement.
“See?”, smiled Adolfo languidly, “Something always turns up”
:
The note was written on good quality paper and sealed with a blob of red was. Inside was a short note written in bold cursive hand. The note was not addressed to Alegno specifically but seemed to be directed towards any member of the party he had accompanied to Florence. The note simply stated the author wished to understand certain details of the journey – in particular those relating to the death of a young man – and would pay generously for the interview. If the reader agreed they were to tell the tavern keeper and return the following day. 
Alegno informed the tavern keeper of their intentions as they left. The excitement of the letter had sobered Alegno. Even a small amount of money would be useful at this point – he could at least use it to visit Carlo and see if some plan could not be devised that see the project completed at themselves paid. Adolfo seemed to care little and drunkenly rolled back to the studio were they still slept.
The following day was cold and wet. Alegn put on his thick travelling cloak to keep out the rain and returned to the tavern. Alegno pushed through the early morning customers to speak to the inn keeper. The man informed him that a message had been left and that if he still wished to go through with the meeting he should be on the middle of the ponte vecchio just before sunset. Alegno thanked him with a further coin and departed.
Alegno arrived at the bridge a good time before sunset. At this time of day, the butchers were clearing the spaces outside of their shops, tossing unsold offal into the river. Alegno offered a ruddy butcher a couple of coins to half conceal himself between two shops on the pretence of hiding from friends as part of some apprentice mischief.  The sun set and the bridge emptied of people. The sounds of the shopkeepers was replaced by the rush of the Arno passing through the arches of the ancient bridge. Alegno shivered in the increasing cold and huddled into his cloak.
It became colder and darker still and a fog had begun to form over the Arno valley. Alegno almost missed the coweled figure who strode purposefully past his hiding place. Alegno waited a few seconds for the figure to pass, and stood up with intention of following. Just as he started to move he heard the sound of boots on stone. He froze in place, holdinfg his breath. Another figure was moving cautiously along the bridge, keeping close to the buildings and almost invisible in the darkness and thickening fog. Trying to make the least sound Algeno pulled himself from his hiding place and set off in pursuit.
The sides of the bridge were lined with boarded shops. Algeno kept close to these as he made its way up the bridge, trying to keep his quarry in sight. Then from ahead he heard a voice – a woman’s, to his surprise – call out a cautious greeting, Alegno crept closer. The second figure returned the greeting and, to Algeno’s surprise, introduced hmself as Alegno. 
Both figures were now clearly visible. One smaller, the woman, and one larger – “Alegno”. The man started to approach the woman, quickly closing the distance, hands raised to show he had no weapon. Suddenly he lunged for the woman. She shrieked, but jumped nimbly aside. The man gabbed empty air, righted himself and spun round to seek his target. The woman sprinted past the man, cloak billowing, and back down the bridge towards Algeno.
The woman ran past Alegno’s stationary form, her enemy in determined pursuit. Feeling that he had little to lose, Algeno sprinted towards the ladie’s pursuer.  This caught the still-cloaked man off guard. He hesitated briefly between his two targets. Then, making up, his mind, he sprang at Alegno.
The man was maybe twice Alegno’s wait and thick with muscle. Alegno was knocked to the ground, gaspinf for breath. The man fell on Algeno and grabbed his neck with this thick calloused hands. Alegno could smell the sour wine on the man’s breath. Alegno kicked and struggled, but his assailnet was larger and much stronger.An even greater darkness started to fill his vision and he felt his life draining away.
There was a scream and the hands went limp. The man man sprang away from him and limped towards a figure in the darkness. Alegno made out the woman. She was holding a meat hook that she must have taken from one of the shops.  The brute staggered after her, as she turned and fled. Algeno pulled himself together and followed her into the night.
:
Carlo took the gruel without enthusiasm. This was breakfast: a thin grey soup of vegetables and barley. Lunch and supper would be no different. Having no appetite, but knowing that he must eat, we swallowed a mouthful of the tasteless soup. His fellow prisoners were likewise eating, the quality of their fare varying according to the money their families provided. Those who had no money or no family ate like Carlo did; others like Mr Lamb had wine, good bread and meat. Even the gruel was not free – its cost would be added to his debt. Carlo lost what little appetite he had and sank into depression.
In the morning the prisoners could exercise in the prisons courtyard. The different grades did not mix, but friends and family members were free to visit the prisoners. They would bring gifts and money  - both for their family and for the guards as a gaurantor of good treatment. Carlo slouched into the courtyard in the hope that someone had chosen to visit him.  He was therefore heartened to see Alessandro enter the yard. Carlo hurried desperately to him. Alessandro greeted him:
“Carlo!”, he frowned and added, “You look terrible”
“Please, Alessandro, you must help me”, Carlo pleaded.”I am afraid for my life”
 “In what way?”, said a concerned Alessandro.
“There is a man – men – who wish me dead. You have to get me out!”
Alessandro shook his head. “I am sorry, Carlo. Until your term is up, there is little hope. The bank has taken everything you own and it is not enough to clear the debt. You will have to serve the term at the very least”
Carlo slumped dejectedly. “Then what am I to do?”
“I will consult with our friends”, he said, “they may have some further thoughts. In the meantime, I will pay the guards a little more to watch our for you. That may be enough “. He patted Carlo on the back. “Do not worry old friend, this will soon be in the past”
Carlo returned to his cell building. From his bunk, Mr Lamb called to him.
“Problems?”, he quizzed, “Need to be somewhere in a hurry?”
“Prehaps Alessandro is right”, he mused to himself, “perhaps I can just wait this out”
“Maybe”, responded Mr Lamb philosophically, “Maybe not. Depends on who The Holy Family have on the outside. Few coins in the right palm and”. He walked his fingers along the side of the bed by iullustration. “our friends will walk over here, put you to sleep, and be back in their cosy crib before anyone’s Any the wiser”
Carlo whitened.

“But”, Mr Lamb continued, “I might be able to assist. I sense an arrangement to out mutual benefi”
  :
A furtive figure slunk warily through the dark streets of the Some quarter. He glanced nervously behind himself before knocking on the low wooden door of nearby silent house. He knocked three times: two sharp knocks, a pause, then a further knock. This had been the agreed sign. He waited in silence, worrying that this was the wrong house. Then the  door opened and he was beckoned inside.
Milenni faced his vistor across a dark wood table. Milenni was dressed in rich furs finished with an expensive cap.  His waited for his visitor to sit before passing him a goblet of wine.
“I came as you instructed”, said the visitor, “I was not followed”.
“Of course. If you were, we not be having meeting”, Milenni said coldy. “I have heard unsatisfactory reports”
  :
Alegno followed the woman across the bridge and into the maze of narrow streets. They dodged down one street and then another. The irregular gait of their injured assailant got fainter as they increased their distance. Finally, they ceased all together the couple stopped and stood listening.
“I think we have lost him”, breathed the woman. “I offer you my thanks, sir. I am Isabetta d’Arezzo”
“And I Alegno”, he whispered, “It is I you were expecting to meet”
The woman removed the cowl of her cloak. She was dark haired young woman of roughly his age.  Her hair was cropped short around her thin face and she studied him him dark brown eyes. She was plainly addressed and spoke with a Tuscan accent like his own. However, her manner and tone hinted at wealth and breeding – she might pass as  a young noblewoman were it not for the manner of the activities she was engaged in.
“So, you are Alegno. We have matters to discuss, but not here. Come”. After a second to get her bearings, she was off again through the Florentine streets.
:
Alegno found himself once more in the company of Sir John. Isabetta had brought Algeno to a small apartment in the something quarter. She explained that he shared it with her Father whom she was accompanying on business. It did not seem likely that her father was Sir John, but for now, Algeno chose to keep silent. Sir John, for his part, did the same. Whether because it served his own plans, for he had simply forgotten their earlier meeting, Alegno did not know.  The three of them sat in a comfortable parlour while a servant brought them wine, bread and cured meats. Isabetta explained that they were seeking information about the boy who had been killed on the journey here. He was a relative, they said, and they wished to know whether he had shared any confidences with Alegno or other members of that party. Alegno said he had not: the boy had been scared and silent the entire trip. This came as a disappointment and Algeno sensed the interview would shortly be at an end. To his surprise, the prospect filled him with regret. There was something about this strange woman that he found intensely intriguing and the prospect of never seeing her again filled him with sadness.
“However”, he chanced, “I am in touch with some other members of that group. If you wish I can gather them and meet again. Also”. He added, cheekily, “I could perhaps assist. My employer is … er … currently on holiday and I find myself without work.  I know the city well and your poor Father”. He smiled at Sir John. “ would surely like to rest his old legs”. Sir John scowled.
Isabetta paused to consider the offer. “Very well, master Algeno. Consider yourself in my employ. Let me know when you have contacted your fellows, and I shall meet them. In the meantime, I would like to find the man who attacked us. Do you perhaps know of anyone aquainted with less desirable elements of this city?”
Algeno thought of Adolfo and grinned. “I know of just the man”.
:
To the grand council and his esteemed colleagues, Milenni was an upstanding member of Florentine society. He served as one of “The Eight”, the elite tribunal who dealt with the prosecution of more politically motivated crimes. He was a respected man of Florence. 
However, there were things in his past – cases of poor judgement – that he would rather remain hidden. Things involving boys. Things that Albegio d’Albizzi knew. And so, it was Albizzi, more than Florence, that he served. It was true that Albizzi paid well; while he was rich we would not have been able to afford the beautiful things that decorated his Villa in the hills outsde Florence. But whenever he waivered, Albizzi has sure to indirectly remind him that of how easily he could be unmade.
The role Milenni played was ill defined, but essentially it was essentially one of managing Albizzi’s less savoury business associates and acting as something of a spy-master. It was in this latter role that he now worked. He once again turned to the papers in front of him, papers which Albizzi had risked much to obtain and were, for the moment, useless. He furrowed his brow in concentration and resolved to make some sense of them.
There were perhaps twenty sheets in the stack in front of him. They were written largely in latin, a language which gave in no trouble. However, what was written was nonsense. A rambling “story” that made no sense; there was no clear beginning or end to the story, nor any discernable plot or message. The “story”, featured a maiden embarking on a journey was interspersed with long passages of a biblical character, some passages in a foreign (or perhaps imaginary) tongue.  Passages were repeated verbatim or with only minor changes.
Albizzi clearly believed that enciphered within this nonsense was some hidden message. If Albizzi had any suspicions as to the content of the message or its true recipient, then he did not share them. Milenni had wasted many hours trying to make sense – trying to locate passages within the bible and other texts, using numerology and astrology to tease out some meaning. So far, in vain. He rubbed  his eyes against the poor light. Without some revelation, Albizzi would become angry. He was afrad – he knew that Albizzi had killed common men and had better men than himself condemned to exile. If he failed to satisfy Albizzi he could not be sure that Albizzi would not seek out another  spy master and dispose of Milenni.
Milenni sighed and put away the papers for now. He had other business to attend to.
:
Milenni’s agent faced him across the table. 
“Really?”, said the agent. “I know the information I gave you was correct, and the other matter I believe is well in hand..”
“It is the woman that is the issue.”,stated Milenni.
“I can assure you, she will be apprehended according to your instructions. It is only a matter of hours” his agent reassured.
“Your information is sadly out of date. I know that she escaped” informed Milenni
“Escaped? How?”, questioned the agent.
“How did she escape or how did I know? How she escaped, I do not know – I assume that your man subdued or evaded. It seems you could not find a man capable of catching a tiny girl. As to how I know”, he gazed coldy at his agent. “I know because I have better, more capable men in my employ that you. Men I might choose to employ in your stead”, he threatened.
“Do not worry, my lord”, said the agent. “It will not happen again”
“See that it does not. Goodbye”
 :
“Algeno, these are dangerous men”, explained Adolof, “Not errand boys you hire and dismiss”
“But you know someone who would be able to find this man?”, asked Algeno.
“Prehaps”, he considered, “There is one man – a Lombardo d’Assissi – who owes me a favour. If you were to consider this as discharging my debts, I might be able to set up a meeting”
“I agree”, said Alegno.
“This”, said Sigismondo cheerfully, “Is a terrible idea. Alegno is in love and so proceeds along the well-travelled romantic path towards certain death to win the attention of the woman he adores”
“I am not in love”, denied Alegno. “I simply wish to see this man face justice for assaulting a lady”
“Very noble. Adolfo, “, he turned to Adolfo, “do your fellow scum work for free or do they expect payment? How is that to be managed?”
“Adolfo said he owes him”, resoponded Alegno.
“true”, said Adolfo,”but that only goes so far. Probably far enough to stop us being killed, but not much further”
“Oh. Well, I have a few coins still and perhaps I could trade…”
“What”, jeered Sigismondo, “your peachy arse?”. He paused. “But if I joined you on this little adventure, I could pay these villans”
“Why would you do that?”, asked Algeno, suspiciously.
“Why?”, he made an expansive gesture, “Boredom! I am sick of dealing with summoners and bailiffs, and this adventure on behalf of Alegno’s dick at least promises some excitement”
  

Adolfo was gone for several hours and returned to say that the meeting had been arranged for that night. They gathered on the north bank of the Arno, at a point where a tunnel lead into the drain. They had on Adolfo’s instruction bought a tar dipped torch which Adolfo now proceeded to light. They climbed into the drain.
The drain’s beneath Florence had been built centuries ago by the romans. The recent rain had left them clean, but there was still a lingering smell of effluent. The base of the drain was, Algeno noted, dark – stained by centuries of shit and grime. The drain was high at the start, but narrow, and they had to walk in single file. Adolfo lead with the torch as he claimed to know the way. Alegno followed with Sigismondo behind. Sigismondo carried his dagger openly, judging that fear of arrest was ulikely down here.
The skill of the drain builders had been exceptional, but  the centuries had taken their toll. At one point, the roof of the drain had collapsed almost entirely, leaving only a narrow sewage filled crawlspace.  They had to wade through the stagnant sewage, heads graving the drains collapsed arch. While reason told Alegno that the drain had probably collapsed decades ago, it was hard to escape the feeling that at any moment the blocks would shift and they would be entombed in this dismal oubliette. Algeno was only distracted from this sense of claustrophobia by the almost overpowering smell, a stink so potent that it made their eyes water and noses run. “Maybe not the best way?”, Adolfo ventured.
From the obstruction they proceeded deeper into the labyrinthine drain-work. Rats scuttled past their feet. Neither Algeno nor his friends had any real fear of rats: they had been a constant prescence in their lives; indeed for someone to profess such a fear was grounds for mockery, implying that they had lived an almost supernaturally refined existence. However, here, deep in the city sewers, the rats were much larger than the norm. They were also bolder, showing less inclination to flee from the torchlight. Alegno did not like to think what would happen to someone injured or trapped down here.
In due course Adolfo signalled them to be quiet. As they continued they got a sense of light in the tunnel ahead. The light was not coming from within the tunnel, but from a large open area. Within this area, fires had been lit and the area was thick with smoke, especially towards the upper part of the chamber where it pooled before it was slowly drawn into some unseen chimney. The area, Algeno reasoned, was probably an ancient cistern that had been incorporated into the city’s drainage network. They were prehaps thirty or so unkempt men. These men were variously engaged in drinking, fighting, selling ( presumably stolen ) goods or simply sleeping. They ignored the visitors.
“Welcome”, said Adolfo, “To The Court of Fools!”
The Court, Adolfo informed them, was the de facto headquarters of the Cockerels, the smallest of the seven thieves guilds. While small, they had a reputation for knowing what was going on in the city. This because, Adolfo said, of their jealously guarded knowledge of the tunnels beneath Florence. 
Adolfo went to make enquiries and was directed towards a group of men huddled in the one corner of the damp chamber. “Lombardo?”, he enquired.
“Who wants to know?”, came a sullen response. The men shifted threateningly.
“Adolfo. Remember me?”
“Oh. Yeah. Your alright. Who are these?”, indicating Alegno and Sigismondo.
“Friends”, he said without much conviction.
“Okay. What you want, then?” enquired Lombardo.
“We are trying to locate a man”, began Alegno. He supplied a description. Lombardo rubbed his grizzled chin thoughtfully. 
“With a limp, you say. Got this limp recently, did he?”
“Two nights ago”
“Yeah, I know the fella.  Nasty brute, works for hire. Sort of bloke you take on when you need some muscle or want to put the frighteners on someone”
“Do you know where we can find him?”
 “Well”, he said greedily, “that depends”
Sigismondo sighed and pulled a couple of coins from his purse.
“Lovely”, Lombardo said, juggling the coins in his hand. “Very well. He goes by the name of Cicero; if you’re looking for him you can find him in a shack down by the tanneries.”. He gave them detailed directions. “But I’d stay away from him – he’s a fucking monster”
They thanked Lombardo and turned to go. Lombardo noticed their damp clothes and saw an opportunity. “You came down  Rat Street, I see. For another one of these”. He held up a coin between thumb and index finger. “I can send you back a nicer way”
It seemed a good deal and Sigismondo handed over a further coin. Lombardo took the torch and a lead them down one of the other tunnels that emptied into the cistern. They walked through the rat infested maze for sometime before coming to a deadend formed by the complete collapse of the drain. Here a ladder had recently been erected. The ladder extended into an earthern chimney.
“That takes you into the catacombs of the cathedral”, Lombardo told them, “Should be able to find your way out easily enough. Just keep heading up”
They climbed the ladder and found themselves in a low earthern tunnel. Shelves had been cut out of the sides of the tunnel and held both skulls and complete skeletons. Following Lombardo’s advice they followed the incline of the tunnels upwards. As they ascended, the bodies appeared fresher, the skin now being parchment like instead of altogether absent. Finally, the encountered the stone stairs  that would take them into the crypt. These were barred by a gate; Alegno was initially annoyed that they had not been warned about this obstruction. However, Adolfo showed not surprise and picked the lock with ease. They entered the crypt and cautiously passed through the cathederal into morning and daylight.
The reconvened at the “il Agnosti” to decide what they would do with this information. 
“Surely you should simply tell your lady friend about Cicero and leave the matter at that”, said Adolfo. “She will be happy enough with this information, I am sure”
“But Lombardo was clear”, countered Algeno, “This man is a mercenary in the employ of some other party. It is the identity of that party that is most important”
“Yes”, said Adolfo with frustration, “and your woman can discover this without our help. She already has her own man, someone foreign”
“Sir John. From England”
“Yes, so why does she need us?”
“I think”, said Sigismondo, “our friend wants to further prove his worth. And I enjoyed our last sortie, so what do you propose, my lovestruck little bird?”
Alegno reddened. “Simply that we follow him and establish who is working for. We will stay well away from the man himself -it should be without risk”
:
The tanneries lay along a stretch of the Arno east of Florence. Horser urine played a major role in the curing of leather, and the sharp smell struck them long before they arrived at the tanneries proper. They had followed Lombardo’s directions, leaving Florence through the Porte ??, passing under the scaffold where a number of recently caught bandits were hanging. They proceeded along the Arezzo road, passing weavers and dyers and other commercial or manufacturing concerns. The day was brisk and there was now no doubt that winter was on its way.
Cicero’s shack lay in a small cluster of dwellings between two large tanneries. Any comings and goings could be observed from the safety and relative comfort of a tavern opposite. Tavern was probably a generous name for the establishment, being little more than a group of benches set on level ground. A win seller was in charge of this area and went from bench to bench offering wine from a large leather bladder. The place was crowded with workers from the nearby tanneries and the boys attracted little attention. They ordered wine and set to watching.
They need not need to wait long. Towards mid-afternoon, Cicero’s emerged from his home. He still walked with a limp and his leg was still bothering him. Algeno was alarmed as Cicero seemed to make a direct line for them, but he passed by without registering them and demanded wine and food. After drinking two large cups and consuming a number of sausages with bread, he set of towards the city.
They followed at a distance. Alegno was worried that they would be noticed, but the large man seemed oblivious to their prescence. On entering the city, Cicero turned from the main street and stopped before a narrow alley. Algeno’s heart froze as the man searched the crowd for any signs of pursuit. Satisfied that he was unobserved he ducked into the alley. They passed before advancing to the junction with the alley. Looking down it, they saw Cicero entering a house on the right of the alley. They marked the house’s position and briefly debated whether they should stand vigil or take this information to Isabetta. While they were waiting Cicero left the house, slamming the door angrily behind him. He continued down the alley away from the boys. Algeno entered the alley to resume the dispute. Sigismondo grabbed his shoulder.
“Wait. Let us see if anyone else emerges”
They waited, and a few moments later another man emerged. This time dressed in a brown robe, not unlike a priests. The figure, more alert than Cicero, anxiously looked down the alley. The boys pressed themselves to the alley corner and escaped detection. Then the figure set off at a brisk walk, heading this time towards their end of the alley.
“This has been a nice little game”, whispered Sigismondo, “But I think we should end it now”
As the figure arrived at the junction, Sigismondo extended his leg. The hooded man fell sprawled across the pavement. “My apologies!”, he shouted, to anyone who might be listening, “Let me help you up, Father”. He pulled the figure to his feet, and whispered to his ear. “I have a knife against your ribs. Cry out and it will be the end of you”. Alegno removed the man’s hood, and came face to face with Alessandro.
:
Mr Lamb submitted a proposal for Carlo’s consideration. Mr Lamb had business interests that required his direct and personal attention. He could not attend to them while confined. If Carlo could help him through his friends on the outside, Mr Lamb would help Carlo on the inside. Mr Lamb had, it seemed, some influence with The Holy Family and could persuade them leave Carlo alone.
“What is it you would have me do?”, asked Carlo nervously.
“Just deliver some messages to my associates, that kind of thing”, Mr Lamb said casually.
“And you will protect me?”, said Carlo hopefully.
Mr Lamb shrugged. “I can have a word”
“Then I would be happy to assist you. But how can I contact my friends?”
“I’ll have a word with the guard. He’ll take a message if I ask him to; give me the name of your friends and where they can be found. I’ll ask them to come and visit”
Carlo gave Mr Lamb the names of Alegno, Adolfo and Sigismondo and told Mr Lamb they could be found at his old studio or, failing that, at the “il Agnosti”. At breakfast, Mr Lamb spoke quietly to the guard and nodded to Carlo to indicate the message had been sent.  
:
They dragged Alessandro to one side of the busy street and pressed him to the wall.
“What the holy fuck are you up to, Alessandro” hissed Sigismondo. 
Alessandro was shaking. “I don’t know what you are talking about!” he whined.
“Like fuck you do. What was your business with that murderous thug?” pressed Sigismondo.
“Oh”, said Alessandro going limp, “You know about Cicero”
“We do. We know he was paid to abduct a friend of Alegno’s.”. He winked at Alegno. “A lady friend”
 “None of this was my idea!”, he complained, “She was asking questions that my employer did not appreciate. He wanted the opportunity to explain some matters to her. No one was going to get hurt.”
“Your employer? Carlo?”
“No, no, not Carlo. I never really worked for Carlo”
“Then who?”, said Sigismondo.
“Albizzi. I work for Albizzi” he confessed.
“And the Lapis? That was you as well”, asked Algeno.
“I didn’t steal it, if that’s what you mean. But I did tell Albizzi  where Carlo kept it; I didn’t know he meant to steal it, to bankrupt Carlo”
“But why? None of this makes any sense. Why would a great house like Albizzi want to bankrupt a painter?”
“Oh, he’s not interested in Carlo. Albizzi’s faction are great rival’s of the Medici. Carlo borrowed money from the Medici bank to finance the project. Albizzi knew he would, and by not paying him Albizzi gets the Medicis to pay for his new decorations. They will be furious”
“But what is Albizzi’s interest in the girl?”,asked Alegno.
“She’s asking about the boy who was killed. Albizzi has something to do with it and he doesn’t like people snooping around”
“And he asked me to bring her in; could not do it myself, so I hired some help. Pretty bloody useless ‘help’, as it turned out”
“She hit him with a butcher’s hook. I was there”, said Alegno angrily, “your ‘help’ tried to murder me”.
“You’ve got to let me go”, he pleaded, “if Albizzi finds out what I’ve told you I’ll be floating in the Arno tomorrow”
“If we let you go, where are you going to go?”, asked Adolfo.
“I’ll leave Florence. Go south.”, he said. “Please”. 
They considered: they had all the information they needed. It seemed that Albizzi was the architect of both Carlo’s and Isabetta’s misfortune. Alegno would bring her that information and she would decide what to do. Alessandro, whatever his crimes, was not the prime mover in these affairs.
“Let him go”, said Alegno.
Reluctantly Sigismondo released the miserabkle Alessandro. Alessandro ran and had soon vanished into the crowd.
:
Algeno reported back to Isabetta later that day. 
:
On arriving at the “il Agnosti” Alegno was told that Carlo wished to speak with the boys. The following day they were admitted to the prison and spoke to Carlo during his morning exercise. He was shocked to learn the truth Alessandro and cursed himself for ever having trusted him. After ranting about Alessandro’s betrayal and the maleficence of the Albizzi, he introduced them to Mr Lamb. Mr Lamb thanked them for coming.
“I am pleased to welcome associates of my friend Carlo to my humble lodgings. I would offer you wine, but unfortunately I have just drunk the last of it”, he began affably. “Now, your friend is in serious trouble. The Holy Family have marked him and he will be gutted like a pig in no time. I can keep him safe for a bit – I have some leverage – but not for long. So, I have propostion…”
Algeno suspected he was not going to like Mr Lamb’s suggestion. He tensed expectantly.
“You and your friends are going to get us out of here. I’ll keep your friend safe while you sort it out – but”, his voice had a threatening edge, “don’t take too long”

Algeno anxiously approached Isabetta. Of the people he knew in Florence, Sir John, he suspected, would know the most about getting in and out of prisons. Alegno arranged to meet Isabetta and Sir John in SomeChurch. This was a busy meeting place and many guild members chose the large open space to conduct negotiations or meetings. It was noisy too, making life difficult for any potential eavesdroppers. It was also one of the few places Isabetta could go in public without attracting too much attention; something which annoyed her but could not be avoided. 
“My Lady”,he said, “I know that the information I have provisioned thus far hardly merits my asking a favour, but”. He paused, thinking how to phrase the request. “my friend and employer is threatened with his life and I have need of your aid”
Isabetta smiled at Algeno. “How would I aid you?”
Alegno was flustered my her smile.
“Well, er, I  was hoping you would look favourably on my request, as both our misfortunes spring from the same source, the Albizzi ..”
“Go on”
“I was hoping you would allow Sir John to assist me in some brief endeavour”
Isabetta looked disappointed. “I though it was my aid you sought, Algeno”
“Well, yes, but as a lady…”
“As a lady what? Ride? Shoot? Address a man as an equal?”. She paused and smiled flirtaously. “Take a lover?”
“…”
Sir John stepped in. “I think what the young man is trying to say is that the task he has in mind will require less ladylike skills”
“That is very fortunate then, because of such skills, I have none” 
  She clapped her hands. “Sir John and I will be delighted to assist you. What do you plan?”
:
Breaking into the prison would not be especially hard, Sir John said. Few people ever tried to escape from le Stinche – not because of the security, but because there was little point. Most of the prisoners were being held for comparatively minor crimes and would be released after a short stay. Any motivation to escape was further attenuated by the knowledge that the punishment for evading justice was greater than that inflicted from accepting it. It was quite normal for a relatively minor fine or incarceration to be converted into a capital offence through offenders decision to attempt evasion. Dangerous criminals would typically receive capital sentences of varying severity – hanging for prosaic crims like banditry, burning and disembowelling for more heinious crimes.  There were few long serving criminal inmates at le Stinche – The Holy Family were exception. Their violent crimes should have sent them to the hangman,   but there was clearly money at work, and their sentences had been converted into lengthy incarcerations. 
So, Sir John explained, they would probably have little trouble with the guards. They would be either young and therefore inexperienced, or old and likely serving at the prison by way of a pension in their twilight years. They were also likely to be few in number. A bigger problem would be what to do after they escaped – In all likelihood Carlo would be sentenced in absentia to death.  He would have to leave Florence. 
Still, Algeno, countered, he will likely end up dead in any event, so that was not really an argument against.
:
“it just gets better and better”, said SIgismondo. “First a nigh time ramble through shit, then a clandestine pursuit. Now a prison break! This girl had better be worth it”
He sketched an outline of the prison in chalk on the ground floor of the studio. The prison was roughly square. The group of buildings that accommodated the prisoners were situated in an inner courtyard, surrounded by a wall only a little higher than the roofs of the enclosed buildings. This courtyard was in turn surrounded by a high outer wall. Between the inner and out walls was a narrow yard. This yard was prevented from encircling the inner yard by a guard house use that joined the inner courtyard to street door. It was through this door that prisoners and visitors were admitted to the prison. A larger gate opened on to the outer yard directly. This was more rarely used and wide enough to accommodate a cart. This was mainly used to service a small kitchen and workshop situated in the outer yard opposite the guard house.
Any attempt at escaping over the wall would be futile. While it would easy enough to get into the outer yard from the roofs of the building, there was no way of scaling or descending the fifty foot featureless outer wall. The only practical exits were through either the guard house or the gate, so learning how these were operated would be critical to the success of any plan. 
Adolfo had learned that the building opposite the prison was vacant – it was an unpopular location due to the unsettling screams of the insane inmates – so they would take turns observing the prison and establish if there was a timetable they could exploit. Algeno would take the first watch, followed by Adolfo and then Sigismondo. A sheet of vellum and a quill pen were obtained, along with a supply of candles and a tinderbox to light them with.
16th November. First vigil.
Alegno: Just after the dawn, the guards change. Six guards changed, two men in their middle years and four younger men. One of the older men, the officer in charge, handed the keys to the new shift. Later in the day  a child bought water and food. Nothing else happened, although I confess I may have fallend asleep.
17th November. Second vigil.
Adolfo: After dawn the guards change. Of course, as Alegno did not think to provide any descriptions we will not know how many guards work at this place. I will attempt to rectify this: I will label the two older men beardy and gouty, that should suffice to identify them. The younger: blondie, dandy ( on account of that feather ), scowly   and clumsy. Scowly, I so named as he has an expression of permanent displeasure. Clumsy is the youngest and seems to have little control over his feet. Unlike my predecessor, I remained awake for the entirety of my watch and can say nothing else happened to relieve the tedium
18th November: Third vigil 
 Sigismondo: Adolfo, you are a fool. These single word descriptions are hardly going to be sufficient – what if, heaven help us, the good lord sends two different blonde guards. I have taken the liberty of sketching the guards on both mine and the preceding watch. Please annotate the sketches as you observe them. I also note that at midday the cart arrives. It is driven by a rotund gentleman with an evident liking for wine. Today it was carrying barrels , sacks and straw. I suspect we will see little variance in this cargo. Alegno, do not fall asleep again.

19th November. 4th vigil
Algeno: I will not. I have amended Sigismondo’s sketches, although I doubt “gouty” would be much flattered by his. I suspect, though, that there are only a total of twelve guards operating two shifts. Further observations will confirm this, if we do not die of boredom first”
They maintained this watch for two weeks. As instructed, Alegno made regular visits to the prison. This allowed him to confirm that Carlo – although clearly anxious – was unharmed and that Mr Lamb had kept his word. He also took the opportunity to let an increasingly impatient Mr Lamb know that a plan was being developed. 
After two weeks, there was.
:
Algeno and Isabetta waited in the early morning just outside the walks of the city. It was a market day and traffic was thick. Many carts were carrying produce from the Tuscan countryside to be sold in Florence. The two of them watched the carts carefully, trying to identify the cart belonging to merchant who delivered to the prison. It did not take very long to appear and they followed it into the city, waiting for an opportunity to complete the next stage in their plan. This occured when the cart driver stopped at a wine seller and bought a large skin of wine. At this point, checking that they were unobserved, Isabetta ducked under the sacks of the cart. Alegno continued walking close to the cart in case of trouble. 
They had followed the cart a couple of times during their two weeks of preparation. The cart driver had been consistent; entering the city at roughly the same time, stopping at the same wine seller. And generally showing little interest in his cart or its goods. This had given them confidence that this part of the plan would go ahead without problem.
Isabetta sneezed.
The cart driver started and turned to his cart. He looked puzzled, but seemed to be in a mind to dismiss it.
Isabetta sneezed again.
This time there was no doubting the source. The cart driver jumped from his seat and began to inspect the cart. There was no chance of Isabetta remaining undetected, she revealed herself and held upo her hands in defence.
“Please sir”, she said in an accent that, Alegno supposed, she thought was common. “I was only having a little sleep…”
“Out”, said the cart driver. “Get out you urchin”
Alegno thought fast. He hurridly approached the cart driver
“My sister!”, he said. “She’s always playing these games! I am so sorry…”

“Your sister?”, questioned the befuddled driver.
“Yes, my sister. She pretends that she is poor – I mean, just listen to her! That accent!”
Alegno slapped the man heartily.
“Still, no harm done. I must compensate you for your trouble, of course”. He fumbled in his coin purse. “Let me buy you another of those”.
:
Eventually, the cart driver passed out.  
“’That accent’”, Isabetta grumbled.
“I had to say something”, laughed Algeno. “And, to be honest, it was terrible. Is that how you think the rest of us sound?”
“Hmmph. Anyway, should we go? I expect the delay will be tolerated, but it is hardly an auspicious start to this adventure”.
They left the cart driver clutching his wineskin. Alegno drove the cart and they approached the point, o the corner of … and … where Algeno had agreed to meet Sir John and the others. 
“It is not ideal”, frowned Sir John, “We should hope that a new driver does not arouse suspicion. Also”. Against Algeno’s protests, Sir John adjusted Alegno’s hair and clothing. He inspected the result.”Better, but”. He pulled a small wine skin from his belt and poured some of the contents over Alegno. “A waste, but at least you look more the part now”.
With Isabetta once again concealed, the cart made its way to the prison. Blondie met them and mumbled something about them being later than usual. Alegno started on a planned explanation – something about his uncle being sick – but stopped when it became clear that Blondie didn’t care. The cart was ushered in under the Florentine crest and into the Prison’s outer yard. Once inside, the gate was shut behind it.
:
With the first part of the plan in motion, the second was set in motion. Over the last two weeks, Adolfo had observed the visitors to the prison, and had marked two. They were an elderly couple who visited the prison to sell candles, flint and other minor luxuries to the prisoners. They were so regular as to be ignored by the guards and could almost be invisible.
It had taken little effort on Adolfo’s part to find the residence of the pair. They were very poor and took little in the form of financial encouragement to forgoe their daily visit to the prison. They were also happy to sell Adolfo their clothes, or rather, as it was presented, “give” their filthy clothes to Adolfo for disposal in exchange for money with which they would buy new ones.  Adolfo himself was dressed in the most outlandish and dandy-ish clothing he could find at short notice. A figure, he hoped, that would be difficult to forget. He had no illusion that this cunning couple had a sense of what was planned and would, in a beat, betray him. His attire would hopefully make any description they furnished useless.    
Sigismondo looked suspiciously at the black substance Adolfo was preparing.
“What is that?”
“A dye. It is prepared from sea creatures. It will darken your hair”
“I suppose so.”, he rubbed his hands through his thick blonde locks, ”Your head,I assume, will receive no such treatment? As  your hair  normally looks foul?”
Adolfo ignored him. “I have a something similar for myself. We will also need to redden our skin and add some additions”
“Additions?”
“Boils, warts – that manner of thing. The good woman had a large prominent one which I will attempt to replicate”. He gestured at the wax on his workbench. “It will bind to the hairs on our faces. It will be painful to remove, I am afraid, but should convince anything but the closest observer”
The clothes smelt bad enough that there did not seem to be any need to worsen them further. The dreadful plague, though it was no longer in living memory, had left a deep fear of illness lodged in the folk psyche. People would avoid anyone who looked sick and would not wish to get close enough to study them deeply.
After the make-up was applied, Sigismondo dressed as the old woman’s husband. He put on the foul clothing with obvious disgust. Adolfo studied him, made some adjustments, and pronounced him acceptable. He applied a similar process to himself, checking himself in a glass. Sir John considered the two of them and laughed.
“Such an improvement on nature! You have practised the gait?”
“We have it fair. I hope no one is so observant as to pay it much heed”
“Very well”, said Sir John, “Let us proceed”
:
They waited until other visitors had begun to arrive at the prison and joined the queue passing through the narrow passage into the inner yard. The guards casually glanced at them and paid them little attention. Their fellow visitors kept their distance from them, apparently offended by the appearance and smell. 
There were two young guards in the inner yard – scowly and clumsy according to Adolfo’s designation. Both were bored and inattentive. Sigismondo spied Mr Lamb and gave a discrete signal. Mr Lamb nodded in response. Now they had only to wait.
:
Alegno steered the cart through the narrow channel of the outer yard. In the northeast corner stood the basic workshop and kitchen. This was a simple single storey building that housed a kitchen, workshop and store. The corner of the prison wall formed two of this buildings walls, which were in turn capped by a sloped roof. The building nearest them housee the workshop; thisd held a forge ( currenly unlit ) that could be used for modifying and repairs chains and other restraints that were occasionally used. Next to this was the kitchen. This was little more than a room to house a large kettle and the fire that heated it. Adjacent again was a store room, which held amongst other things, the hay used to refresh ( when they could afford it ) the prisoners bedding. It was not a large building, but wide enough to almost cover the width of the narrow yard. The cart could not pass the building and would be unloaded in front of the workshop.
This utility building was staffed by a lone wiry caretaker. He sat on a log and observed the cart’s approach without any interest. Alegno cheerily told him that the usual driver was sick and that he would be making the delivery today, and where should he put the supplies? Without looking at Alegno the wiry man indicated the store room at the far end of the building. 
Meanwhile, Isabetta had slipped from beneath the cart and now stood hidden between the body of the cart and the utility building. Keeping low, she crept slowly between the cart and the wall of the inner yard.  She was small and the perpetual twilight afforded by the high prison wall made her unobtrusive. She stopped as she came level with oxen, ready to retreat if the animals showed any sign of agitation. They did not. She advanced and waited.
She was waiting for Algeno to generate some distraction. There had been no scope for this in the original plan, but, they had earlier agreed, it now made sense. Alegno was walking along the front of the utility building and would momentarily stand between her and the caretaker.  He was carrying a sack of barley – presumably the principle ingredient for the prisoners gruel – and winked at her as he was about to draw level.
Faking a trip, he dropped the sack. Alegno had untied it before removing it from the cart and it now proceeded to spill its contents across the yard. The caretaker cursed. Sensing an opportunity to berate someone, really the only activity from which he derived any pleasure, he stood up and marched to Algeno. 
“You young fool”, he grumbled, “watch your step. And why weren’t the sacks tied properly? Young people these days, lazy sodomites all of them…” 
Isabetta quickly scuttled into the kitchen. A fire smouldered under the kettle. Isabetta took a branch from the nearby wood pile and poked it into the embers. It would not light. There was little time so she grabbed an small iron pot from a hook and scooped up a quanity of hot ash from the fire bed. Satisfied with a sufficient quantity of red hot embers, she peered around the door frame. The caretaker was still admonoishing Algeno, who was doing everything in his power to flatter the old bully. She ducked into the store house. As they expected, the room was more than half full of straw. She quickly dropped her burning wood onto the pile, covering the smoking heap with further straw. She once again left the building and concealed herself outside. Now all she needed was an opportunity to return the the cart and escape with Algeno.
That had been the plan, but something had been misjudged. The summer and early autumn had been mild and this building – for all of its provisional lean-to appearance – was weather tight and dry. Rather than generating much smoke and little fire, the straw had quickly caught and the resultant fire was now threatening the building.
This had not gone unnoticed by the caretaker, who looked dumbfounded at the smoke billowing from the storehouse roof and door. 
“Quick”, he said to Alegno, “You must help me get help!”
But first they had to move the cart. The oxen were clearly getting increasingly agitated; turning the cart around was not easy and by the time they had done this, the fire had already taken the building. With the caretaker shouting fire, they quickly made their way to the prison gate. Alegno glanced back, hoping Isabetta would be okay.
:
The fire had not gone unnoticed by the occupants of the inner yard. Everyone in the yard was now staring at the pillar of white smoke rising from the north-east corner of the prison. This was the signal that Adolfo and the others had been expecting; quickly they ducked into the empty cell building and proceeded to undress. Carlo and Mr Lamb took their clothes and quickly changed; makeup was quickly reapplied. 
In the time it took to do this, the fire had grown. Adolfo and Sigismondo looked at one another: this was not what they had expected. Rather than something to distract the bored guards, they had instigated a panic. The guards were seemingly ignoring the prisoners and were ineffectively conferring as to what they should do. The entrance to the prison was unbarred and unguarded. Mr Lamb quickly made for it. Then they saw Falco crossing the yard, heading for the dormitory that held The Holy Family and other serious offenders. The plan agreed by Mr Lamb and Carlo had made no provision for Falco’s escape, so Falco had decided to implement his own.  He did not seem bothered that the seriousness of the now major fire made further plans redundant and instead proceeded to release the door of the dormitory. The Holy Family spilled out. They looked around angrily; The Carpenter and The Infant made for two of the guards. The Madonna spotted Carlo and, with an evil grin ran towards Carlo and his companions.    
Once the fire had taken hold of the building, Isabetta was effectively trapped in the south eastern L of the inner yard. With no break in either wall, she had no choice but to follow the yard around the outside of the prison proper. After a few moments she arrived at the end of the L. This was the point in the circuit where the outer courtyard met the guardroom. Adjacent to this room was another building, slightly lower than the building that housed the guardroom. A door from this building opened onto the yard. Isabetta tried it without much optimism; the inner yard would after all be relatively easy for a determined prisoner to access from the roofs of the prison buildings. To her surprise it opened. Inside was a small armoury, and, amongst the weapons lay a short bow. The bow string was frayed and it was never more than the most basic of military equipment. Nevertheless, it was something she could use and it might come in useful. Another door connected the interior of the armoury to the rest of the guard block. This was locked. She examined the exterior: it would be possible, she reasoned, to climb from the roof of the armory onto the guardblock. From there it would be possible to scale the inner prison wall and drop into the courtyard below. 
With some effort she clambered onto the armoury. From there it was an easy step onto the roof of the guard block. The inner wall was higher – a good ten feet -  but there were a number of loose bricks  and a childhood spent amongst boys meant she was no stranger to climbing. She pulled herself on top of the wall and surveyed the chaos in the court yard below.
:
The Madonna carried an improvised knife. The blade was made from a sharp piece of metal and the handle from a piece of rag. The brute strode towards them, back hunched. He slashed the air with the knife intimidatingly. Sigismondo drew his dagger. It was a fine dagger. It was made of good tempered steel and its hilt inlaid with Ivory. Rather than be upset by its appearance, The Madonna, if anything, was enthused. This valuable dagger, after all, was an unexpected prize.
“Give me your shirt Adolfo”, hissed Sigismondo. “Quick”
Adolfo tore off his shirt. Sigismondo quickly wrapped it around his left arm as a makeshift buckler. He planted his left foot towards his attacker, his right foot behind. A classic fencing stance that would provide his attacker with smallest target. But Sigismondo knew he would have to hurt his foe hard and quickly if he had any chance of getting out of this alive: The Madonna was big, and unless injured, would be able to push through any defence of his with ease.
Sigismondo attacked as soon as The Madonna came in range. He thrust: the Madonna’s crude knife would only be suitable for close range; Sigismondo knew from experience that with his tall and athletic build his thrusts had a formidable reach. He connected with his target’s knife arm and felt the dagger slide through the flesh. The Madonna, surprised, stepped back.
“You fucker, you’ll pay for that: I’m going to put that fancy knife up your arse”. 
He slashed at Sigismondo, who parried with Adolfo’s shirt. He heard the fabric tear; the shirt was not going to be an effective shield for long. They circled. The Madonna was more cautious now and did not provide Sigismondo with an opening. Sigismondo was able to parry his attacker, but both of them knew that Sigismondo would soon lose the protection of his ersatz buckler and The Madonna would have the advantage.
The Madonna feinted left; too late SIgismondo saw the duplicitous move and barely parried. The Madonna brought himself closer, eliminating Sigismondo’s only advantage. He tried to back up to, to increase the distance, but found himself against the prison wall. Sensing victory, The Madonna’s face split into a hideous grin. 
Smoke was now billowing over the wall into the inner courtyard. The sound of the fire and the screams of the trapped inmates made it difficult to detect Adolfo’s approach. He swung a heavy wooden bucket at The Madonna’s back and head. This did little damage, but distracted him long enough for Sigismondo to dodge out of the way and back into more open space. The Madonna punched Adolofo to the groung. “Deal with you later”, he growled.
Adolfo’s action had bought only a momentary respite. The Madonna charged at Sigismondo. Sigismondo backed, and lost his footing and stumbled. The Madonna saw his chance and grabbed Sigismondo’s knife arm in one meaty hand. He squeezed hard. Sigismondo dropped his dagger. The Madonna readied his killing blow. 
:
Isabetta drew the bowstring tight to her chin. She sat astride the wall, with her body turned toward the courtyard. It was not an ideal shooting position, but it would have to do. She would likely only have a single shot. She released the arrow ; it flew through the air to hit the thugs lower back. He rocked drunkenly with a look of puzzlement on this face. Then he fell, first to his knees and then face down in the dirty yard. Initially baffled by his miraculous escape, it did not take Sigismondo long to understand what had happened. He cast his eyes over the prison for the source of his salvation, and on seeing Isabetta gave her wave of thanks.  
Isabetta made her away along the wall until she found herself above the roof of one of the interior buildings; she dropped down and made her way toi the ground. The prison was truly on fire now. As an act of charity, someone had released all the inmates. Carlo, Isabetta, Sigismondo and a still stunned Adolfo joined this mob and pushed towards the only exit.
As they left, they encountered Alegno who had been conscripted into the bucket chain that was trying to extinguish the fire with water from a nearby well. On seeing his friends, he made an excuse and ran to join them, glad that all were unharmed.
:
Mr Lamb paused for a breath in a small square in the ?? quarter. He lent against the wall. There was no one around, Good, he thought. He drew himself away from the wall and started to walk in a less hurried pace towards the centre of town. He was eager to get a drink and to get out of these filthy clothes. 
He did not hear Sir John approach from behind. Sir John pressed the blade of a dagger into Mr Lambs ribs. 
“Pressing business, Mr Lamb?”, asked Sir John. “Sure it can wait. My friends have some questions for you…”
 :
The apartment by the prison had, by necessity, been vacated. Sir John had found them alternative lodgings with “a gentleman who is not too particular about his tenants”. It was a single room close to the river and almost as damp. A fire had at some point been lit on the floor and left a large burnt patch. A more dismal and depressing home it was hard to imagine.
Mr Lamb was none too happy to be there. He sat on a stool, with his hands tied.
“Your mate got out”, he grumbled. “What do you want with me?”
“You told Carlo that you had powerful ‘friends’. Told him that you worked for Albizzi”, said Sir John. “Was that bluster or do you work for him?”
“Yeah”, he puffed hiumself up. “And if anything happens to me, your lives won’t be worth living”
Sigismondo, cleaning his dagger by the door, shook his head.
“Lies. Albizzi is a noble, wouldn’t work with scum like this. He knows nothing, we should gut him for leaving Carlo to be butchered”
Sir John took out his own dagger.
 “Fair enough. Let’s get on with it”
“Wait. Wait”, cried Mr Lamb, panic rising. “I do work for him. I promise you. Ask me anything”
Sir John paused, as if thinking of a suitable question.
“Boy Albizzi had killed for package? What was his name?”
“Name? I dunno – but I know who does!”,he said triumphantly, “Falco! He’s the one who did him in!”
Isabetta tensed but said nothing. Sir John continued.
“Hmm. So you know something. What about the package the boy was carrying. What happened to it?”
“The papers for Medici? Milenni has them – although I hear they are nothing but nonsense”
“The same Milenni who sits as one of The Eight?”
Mr Lamb looked smug.
“Very same. You see? I am well connected!”
Sir John rubbed his chin.
“Well, I don’t think we should kill you then. Gentleman, “ he addressed the boys, “will you assist me in throwing our Mr Lamb ion the river?”
:
The five of them stood on the river bank and watched Mr Lamb thrash in the water. He seemed to be able to swim, but he did not look like he would be getting out soon. The sun was beginning to set and threw an orange glow across the still rising tower of smoke from the prison. Sir John grinned and clapped Alegno on the back.
“Well, I don’t know about you, but I think today went rather well”
:
The day had revealed much: the identity of Francesco’s murderer and the contents and recipient of the package for which he was killed. There was also the question of what they should do to conceal themselves. Given the chaos of the day, it was likely that someone had seen them and would be able to identify them. While it would have been possible that the escape of one or two prisoners might be forgotten, the burning down of a whole prison would not. This seemed especially likely now that they knew Albizzi had one of The Eight working for him. 
Surprisingly, it was Carlo who came up with the solution.
“I have a friend. A business associate”, he began. “who has a sideline in theatrical entertainment – commedie d’erudite. He is contracted by nobility and people of importance to entertain them during festivals, feast days, birthdays, and such. Our friend mentioned Milenni, and I know for a certain fact that he has hired my friend before and will very likely hire him again”
“And so?”, questioned Adolfo
“Well – and this might seem madness – some us of could embed ourselves in his troupe and recover this package”
Adolfo frowned.
“Which helps us how?”
“The Medici’s want this package, don’t you see? They are as powerful as Albizzi – we could trade the package for their protection. Our crimes would be forgotten and we could probably ask for a small reward into the bargain…”
“Hmmm”, mused Sir John, “It does not seem like madness. I know how to contact Cosimo Medici  and have worked with his house in the past. If he agrees, he will be as good as his word. Isabetta”
Isabetta looked up.
“This is your brothers legacy, what do you say?”
She  appeared clam, but beneath the surface she sensed pools of anger and hatred starting to form.
“The plan sounds excellent – I will be happy to approach Cosimo myself, if that would help the enterprise. But I will ask one thing of you all”
“Indeed?”
“That we do stop until this man Falco is dead”
:
Carlo’s friend was one Guido Balzano, a successful silk merchant, father of six and lover of flamboyant extravagance. Along with five friends he designed, stage managed and appeared in the plays his troupe produced. They were not professional actors but did it simply for the enjoyment of the spectacle. They made little, if any, money from their productions but all saw it as a hobby and a break from the tiresome world of business and guild affairs.
Guido had large town house in the ?? quarter. Here he stayed when he was in town. He also had what he called an estate, although he happily admitted it was really only a villa, albeit a luxurious and richly appointed one.  
The companions approached the house with apprehension. Whatever Carlo’s assurances they could not help but feel conspicuous approaching this fine house in their rags and tattered clothing. 
“Carlo!”, boomed a rich voice, “Carlo! My dear friend”
From the courtyard came a fat man dressed in silk after the roman fashion. He beamed enthusiastically at Carlo and his companions.
“I have only just now heard about your difficulties – I have been in the country – and would have helped had I known, but it does my heart good to see that you have overcome them”
“Well…”,said Carlo, “We have not entirely overcome them. That, I am afraid, is why we are here”
“Really?”,he beamed, “Are you engaged in some nefarious plot, you old rogue? I really hope you are – I so hate the autumn, I need a good tale to cheer me up”
“Well, good sir”, said Sir John, “We not be able to provide much, but we can provide that, if you could offer us shelter for the night”
“Shelter? We do not offer ‘Shelter’ at Bolzano’s”, he boomed expansively. “We offer hospitality!”
He ushered them into the house, making a point of kissing Isabetta’s hand. He was, he explained, alone in the house, aside from the servants. His family were still in the country; they would join him after the play – his wife, while she tolerated his hobby, wanted no involvement with it. The further members of his troupe would not be arriving till later in the week, so he was at something of a loose end. How fortunate that Carlo and his band of miscreants should show up!
:
Guido eagerly invited them into his home and set about ordering servants to fetch wine and prepare food for his honoured guests. Wine was fetched – probably the finest wine that Algeno had ever tasted, although Guido constantly apologized for its quality, blaming his wine merchant for foisting on him such an indifferent vintage. Servants were also instructed to find clothes. These were borrowed from the Bolzano family. “They won’t mind”, assured Guido.
Food has brought out. “Just what I had to hand”, Guido once again apologised. Cold boar, olives, cheeses, white bread and pickled fish. After their adventures they were ravenous and ate with enthusiasm. After  dinner conversation naturally returned to the matter of  their misfortunes. 
“The prison! That was you?”, Guido guffawed, “Well, well!”
“So you see”, Carlo said politely, “It would serve our enterpise if you could enrole us in your troupe. You do intend to play for Milenni this year?”
“Milenni? We do – his man has instructed us to appear before him during the Feast of Fools”, he frowned, “We very much enjoy the experience, although I care little for the man himself”
“Sir” said Isabetta, “Milenni has an object that he had had stolen from my murdered brother. I would like very much to recover it and so, at least in part, revenge myself on his killers. I beg for your assistance in this matter”
Guido blushed. “How can I resist a charming lady like yourself? You remind me of my daughter Florentina”. He paused. “Although less fat. But, of course, my aid is yours!”
“Our thanks. We will not endanger you or your friends.”, assured Carlo. “ If we can just use your troupe to  afford us entrance, we will be forever in your debt.” 
 Guido cheerfully dismissed Carlo’s offer of obligation. “Tsh, just a trifling favour – you owe me nothing”
:
Preparations for the play could not begin until Guido’s friends arrived, though this did not stop Guido from enthusiastically presenting plans and ideas for the forthcoming production. The following day, Sir John slipped out to arrange the meeting that they had discussed earlier. He returned in the early hours of the evening.
“It is arranged. Isabetta must go alone to Duomo at midday tomorrow. A representative of the Medici house will hear our proposal. “. He turned to Alegno. “You and Sigismondo will go with her, I do not think we have to take ‘alone’ too literally”
“And what am I going to do?”, grumbled Adolfo.
“I think our host will find plenty of work for you”, he grinned, “We do have a play to put on”
:
Cosimo Medici gazed up at the vast dome of the cathedral. He feigned ignorance of the young woman approaching him, waiting till she was almost upon him before acknowledging her.
“Ah!”, he ejected, acting surpised. “My dear Isabetta d’Arezzo. You catch me in a moment of contemplation. If this dome not magnificent?”
“It is, my lord”
“but it could use more decoration. I believe the original plan was to have it decorated by a painting of ??  with the light from those windows the effect would have been exceptional. Like looking into heaven. But the city ran out of money. Everything comes down to money in the end – which brings us to our current business.”
“I came alone, my lord, as instructed”
“No, you did not” stated Cosimo. “Oh, don’t look so shocked child, I didn’t really expect you to. I know of the fellows you have accompanying you. And  I am not alone either”. Isabetta glanced round. “I would be mortified if you could see them”, Cosimo said casually, “I pay them handsomely to be invisible. I dislike obvious bodyguards – I think they make a man look afraid. Walk with me”
They began to walk toward the lady chapel. “You say that you can obtain certain papers for me. Assuming that I am interested, what do you want in return?”
“A cancellation of all debt owed to your bank by one Carlo d’Florentine, and the sum of ?, paid on delivery”
“Agreed. When shall I receive the package?”
“In two days time, after The Feast of Fools” replied Isabetta
“In two days, very well. We shall meet here again in two days. I wish you every luck, Isabetta d’Arezzo”
:
With the arrangements made, focus returned to the play. The Feast of Fools took place the day before the start of Advent: a final day of feasting and carnival before several weeks  of supplication and  reflection. The common people would celebrate with usual mixture of street theatre, music, drunkenness and fighting. The nobility would, if they acknowledged the feast at all, host extravagant entertainments for the benefit of their friends and people they wished to impress.
At the end of the week, Guido’s friends arrived and the preparations began in earnest.  A typical play would take place in a classical setting – Athens was the preference, Rome could too easily, Guido remarked, “invite political interpretation”. The theme would be a simple one – characters exemplifying virtues such as chastity and piety would face enemies portraying sins such as envy, lust and so forth. The virtues would ultimately win and everyone would be improved by the spectacle. It was in most respects no different to the mummers plays that would be entertaining the cities less privileged classes. 
The presence of “hardened criminals” in his house had, however, emboldened Guido and he was keen to try something new. He would seek to introduce comic elements, inspired by greek playwrights like Aristophanes. He would, he promised dangerously, add some topical themes.  After a week of rehearsals Guido was satisfied that he had the play he wanted.
:
On the evening of the play, the props, costumes and scenery was loaded onto a cart and “The Noble And True Athenian Players” set out for the Milenni residence. Florence was crowded with revellers dressed with feathers or brightly coloured ribbons. Many had been drinking since the early morning, but mood was one of festive cheer rather than violent inebriation. They passed through the streets without incident and soon found themselves at Milenni’s home. 
Milenni’s house was set back some distance from the street. A couple of men had been stood on the entrance to deter impudent merry makers. It was customary for players to arrive in costume, something that Alegno and his friends hoped would ensure they avoided detection. Mr Lamb had no doubt informed his employers about them by this point, and it entirely possible he or the murderous Falco were here.  The guard looked at Algeno
“I know you”, he said
Alegno froze.
The guard grinned. “You’re wassisname. That greek god.”
Alegno relaxed. 
“Apollo”, he informed.
He had forgotten he was in costume. He was wearing the wooden mask of a handsome man surrounded by a sunburst. This had been painted in gold to complete the image of the sun god Apollo. Adolfo was masked as The Devil. This was an old mummers favourite: a fiend with horns, and a forked tongue protruding from an evil grin. An old child frightening favourite. Sigismondo did not wear a mask, but was made up in the image of death. His skin hadf been whitened with some lead based paint and blonde hair lightened with chalk.  Isabetta, for her part, had refused any costume. For one thing, she said, it was not expected of women to wear masks in the theatre, and for another thing, she didn’t want to. Asked how she would disguise herself, she smiled and said Algeno would have to wait and see. And what he saw was Isabetta, washed and dressed in one of Guido’s daughter’s finest dresses ( “It doesn’t fit her”, Guido responded when asked if he was sure this was okay ). She looked every bit the young noblewoman. No one would recognise her as the same girl who killed a man only a week ago.
“That’s the chap!”, said the guard cheerfully. “Some fellow was playing him at my sisters wedding. Anyway, in you mate. The Guv’nor’s expecting you”
They brought the cart into the yard in front of the  house. Lanterns had been strewn around the yard to brighten and add a festive air to the late November evening. Men and women mingled in the yard; the men wearing their best breeches and surcoats, the women long dresses, their hair tied into tight bunches decorated with silver gauze. Most of the people seemed to be Florentine, although there were people here from throughout the Peninsula’s city states. 
They were approached by Milenni’s major Domo. 
“Ah, the players”, he said, “You are to set up in the small hall. Ask a servant if there is anything you need. The performance will be at midnight; I assume that suits you?”
“Excellent”, boomed Guido, “We promise an evening like no other”
:
The small hall was small only in relation to what was presumably the large hall. A stage had already been erected at the far end of the hall. The stage sloped towards the audience as was the usual fashion and was as yet quite bare. A door behind the stage lead into a storage room, which would serve as their dressing room. Guido and his friends inspected the area and ordered more candles lit to better illuminate the large space. The scenery was brought in from the cart and the stage was dressed. The design was quite modern, Guido stated proudly. He had been influenced by the great Fillipo – architect of the great Dome – whose humanistic ideas were starting to have a profound effect on art and culture. 
The back of the stage was formed by a canvas backdrop onto which had been painted a view over Athens: the Parthenon sat on its rugged promentary surrounded by the white buildings of the Athenian city state. Beyond them there was lush green country side. This image was flanked by panels depicting trees and shrubs, so that the overall effect was one of looking through an avenue of trees towards the city of Athens.
 Everything being in hand, Adolfo decided this was a good opportunity to learn the layout of the building. He removed his devil mask and left the hall into the building proper. The ground floor of the building was dominated by the two large halls. The thickness of the interior walls suggested that the small hall had once stood alone, but had been extended and improved by Milenni and his ancestors. A corridor separated the two halls and provided access to the kitchens and larders. Access to the private apartments would be through the large hall. It would be there that they would find the package that Milenni stole.
A voice made Adolfo stop. Entering the main corridor was Falco. He wore an elaborate hat topped with peacock feathers and his surcoat was slashed in places to reveal expensive silk. In front of him walked Albizzi, looking irritated.
“I do not wish my evening to be spoiled, so let me tell you again: I have set you a task, go to it”
“My lord”, he said obsequisely, “If I could only have a moment of your time, I believe…”
“I know what you believe”, said Albizzi angrily, “you believe that I am a fool who will pay you to protect him from some phantasm. Away!”
Falco bowed and returned outside. Albizzi strode past Adolfo into the large hall. Adolfo replaced his devil mask and hurried back to his companions.
Their goal was to find Milenni’s study while the party goers were distracted by the play. This late in the year no amount of candle could completely dispel the gloom and it would be easy for someone small and lithe, like Isabetta, to creep around the nearly empty building. It was growing late and Milenni’s guests were beginning to filter into the small hall. They gathered in groups to take up positions facing the stage.  Guido checked and double checked costumes and props, and ensured everyone was in the correct initial positions. A bell has rung to indicate the arrival of midnight. The audience gradually fell silent and all eyes turned to the stage:
The house of Twofaceio, a banker of Athena, interior, day
Twofaceio enters, stage right, He is dressed in a  red toga. He is fat and wears a large round mask featuring a prosthetic nose. Most of  audience laugh: he is clearly a caricature of Cosimo Medici. He lurchs awkardly to center stage. His grotesque grinning face turns to the audience. 
"Welcome to my home, good Athenians" he booms, "How do you like my Enormous Golden Balls?"
He throws open ins toga to reveal two large golden globes hanging from his waist.
"I admit", he cofides, "that the removal of my original - ahem - apparatus did pinch a bit"
more laughter
"But these are surely an improvement!"
A wiggle of the hips sends two two golden balls into a spin. The audience collapse with laughter.
"Worth every penny the people of Athena paid for them! Now", he continues, "I am looking for my daughter Virginius. Have you seen her? This way you say?". He leaves, stage right.
Virginus, played by Isabetta, enters from stage right a moment later. This is  a bit of a risk, but it seems unlikely anyone would recognise her. 
"Boo Hoo", she cries, not entirely convincingly, "I am in love with the noble Albio, but my cruel father was forbidden us to meet. But what is this?"
A letter is passed to het from off stage
"A letter?"
She opens it.
"Oh joy! Albio will meet me in the woods tonight and we shall elope! I must prepare", she leaves stage left. 
The play continued. Virgninius would appear again in about half an hours time, so would have until then to find Milenni’s study. The house was quiet and she could see no one as she carefully made her way out of the small hall. The storeroom has a further narrow door that connected to the main corridor. She went through and made her way to the large hall. The halls doors were closed, but unlocked. Isabetta slipped behind the tapestry and peered inside. It too wqas, for the time being, empty. Muffled laughter came from the small hall as the audience continued to enjoy the play.
The hall was richly furnished with a pair of large walnut tables, inlaid with marble and other precious elements. The legs of the tables were scuplted caryatids depicting the virtues. The walls were decorated with frescos from classical mythology: a muscular and bearded Herakles standing over the body of a defeated lion, a severe Athena armed with shield and spear. It was a splendid display of wealth, but it made no impression on Isabetta whose opinion of Milenni as a murderous rogue was utterly fixed.
She crept through the hall, keeping close to the large tables. These would afford her a hiding place if anyone entered the hall. Twice she paused, thinking she heard a noise, but it was just the continuing merriment from the small hall, and so  she arrived at the far door without incident. She tried the door and found that it too was open. With care, she opened the door and poked her head cautiously through it. 
Here an impressive stair lead up to the second storey. Milenni’s study would most likely be upstairs away from the street, probably on the southern side of the building where it would receive most light during the day. She would look there first. A corridor extended from the top of the stair. Off of this were several rooms; a quick inspection showed that these were rooms intended for guests. She ignored these. The corridor ran only about half the length of the building before terminating in a magnificent pair of double doors. These were surely the entrance to Milenni’s private apartment. She tried the door. Locked. She had been lucky this far, but this was not unexpected; she would simply have to return and engage Adolfo’s help. There was still time.
She froze. She heard a footfall on the stair. A pause. Then another. A person. No - two people, were quietly climbing the stair. There was no returning downstairs now; she slipped into the nearest stateroom. Although dark, she could make out the impressive four post bed and the fine wall hangings. She concealed herself behind the side of the bed furthest from the door. The footsteps came closer. 
“Well?”, whispered a man’s voice, “Do you see anything?”
“No”, replied his companion, another man. “Best check the rooms though. Beltano swore he saw someone come up here”.
Damn, thought Isabetta. Hopefully, they will search the rooms together and I can slip by while they are both engaged…
“You stand guard at the top of the stairs, I’ll sweep through the rooms. If there is anyone up here, we don’t want them sneaking down”
Damn again. There was nothing to do but keep still and hope that by some miracle they missed her. It not seem likely; while the room’s decorations were sparse, it was not cluttered and there were few places to hide. Her current hiding place would only defeat the most casual of searches. 
She heard the sound of a key in the lock. The older guard had opened the door to Milenni’s apartments. This would be excellent news if she could think of some way of exploiting it. She could not enter the apartments while the guard was searching them, and she would almost certainly be spotted by the guard on the stair in this event. A few moments passed, the guard returned.
“No one in there”, he called to his colleague. “I’m going to check the other rooms”
She heard the door of the room closest to hers open. She desperately tried to think of a plan.
“Ah! Ha!”, cried the guard. “What do we have here?”
There was a boy’s scream. And then an older man with a note of panic in his voice.
“It’s not what it looks like!”
“Oh”, said the guard with a hint of scarcasm, “That is a relief – I had for moment thought I’d stumbled onto a fair of sodomites engaged in their vile pursuits”
“No, no! We spilt some wine! – yes, that is why we are naked – we were looking for more clothes, when…”
“Frederico!”, cried the guard, “Come and look at these two!”
Frederico entered the room. The way was clear, Isabetta could escape. Then she thought: was the door relocked? I did not hear the key. She crept quickly out of the bedroom, passing in front of the door where the two suspected sodomites had been apprehended.
“Frederico”, said the older guard, “These gentlemen have had the misfortune of losing their clothing in A Highly Believable Accident. I of course do not doubt their word. But, I am in a quandary. A less generously inclined soul could put an altogether darker interpretation on these events. And while I would defend these men with my honour, I would fear it would cost me my job”
“Perplexing”, agreed Frederico. “A veritable moral labyrinth”
The older suspected sodomite say where this was headed. “My thanks, gentleman for your understanding. I believe I can resolve the situation thus: In exchange for your honest testimony, I will give you each ?? by way of insurance against any loss of income you might incur”
“A happy solution!”. 
There was the clink of coins. “And now if you will get addressed, we will return downstairs…”
Isabetta was now inside Milenni’s apartment. It was dark, but the study was easy to find. The small room was full of papers, books and maps. She closed the door and lit her lantern. Had Milenni filed or concealed the papers finding them would have been impossible. As it was, she almost immediately saw the binder that her brother had been carrying. In it was a stack of leaves. They were written in a tidy hand and appeared to be in latin, a language which she could not read. She quickly scanned the study and then removed the papers from the binder. She located another bundle on similar paper and swapped these for her brother’s. Then she left the study and carefully made her way back downstairs, ready to slip into cover if the guard – having remembered that he had not locked the upstairs door – should return.
She returned to the small hall, just in time for Virgnius’ entrance. Quickly concealing the papers amongst the flotsam of the theatre, she stepped onto the stage. In this scene she had finally been found by Abio, who had been searching the woods of Athens for her. Relieved that her expedition had gone well – she embraced him and kissed him passionately on the lips. This would have had more impact on Alegno if the lips had been his rather than the mask’s, but he enjoyed it nonetheless.
The play proceeded. The lovers were separated again. Then reunited. There was more ball swinging from Twofacio. More laughter. And finally a wedding and a moral and improving message. The latter being required if Guido was to get away with his guilded testicle swinging antics. The audience applauded and Guido, his players, Isabetta and the others took their bows.
And then the audience were gone and they set to packing away the production. Milenni’s major Domo conveyed Milenni’s pleasure at the production. The agreed sum was paid and Guido was assured that he would be asked to return next year. Guido was pleased, particularly because his satirical and topical elements ( “golden balls” ) had been so well received. 
“And that”, said Guido, “Is show business!”
:
They wasted no time preparing for the meeting with Cosimo. It seemed prudent to be cautious. They could not know when the theft would be discovered and what Milenni and his master would do when it became known. Furthermore, Adolfo revealed a snatch of conversation he had heard between Falco and Milenni. 
“Falco has there?”, cried Isabetta on hearing this. “Why did you not tell me?”
“What would you have done?”, said Sir John. “Adolfo was right to keep that from you”
“I could have confronted him”, said Isabetta tensely, “I could have told him I knew of his part in my brother’s murder, exposed him…”
“And ended the same way as your brother”, concluded Sir John. “Adolfo was right to keep it from you. Last night was a success – no one was harmed and nothing caught fire. Even the play was a success by all accounts.”
“Yet my brother’s killer is still free”, grumbled Isabetta.
“A problem we can turn to once we have the protection of the Medici’s, not before” said Sir John firmly.
The meeting would take place as planned. Isabetta would be accompanied by Sigismondo, Adolfo and Alegno. Sir John would take the documents and conceal himself somewhere in the Cathedral. If all seemed to be well, Isabetta would signal Sir John and he would come forward to deliver the package.
The weather had turned cold and by mid-morning  the early morning drizzle had turned into freezing rain. Sir John, cloak wrapped tightly around himself, wished them luck and left to take up station in the Duomo. The rest of the party left an hour later and made their way on foot through streets  littered with the aftermath of the night’s merry making. Shop keepers and tenants were busy tidying the areas outside of their premises, erasing the memory of the preceding night in preparation for the more sombre period of advent.  The gutters ran with rain water being drawn to the Arno.
They arrived just as the mid-morning bells rang out from Giotto’s tower. Mass had just ended and a steady stream of people were exiting the grand church, cloaks tightly wrapped against the rain. They hurried past them. The interior of the church was dry, but just as cold as the outside. A strong smell of incense hung in the air. 
As they entered, a cloaked figure peeled himself away from a group sheltering near the porch and started walking towards the agreed meeting point, under the Dome. 
“There’s our ma”, whisphered Sigismondo. “Let’s go”
They followed, until Isabetta paused. The man seemed taller than she remembered.
“No”, she said. 
A loud male voice echoed through the cathedral.
“Seize them! Seize the traitors”
A dozen or so men appeared from behind pillars and other places of concealment. They were dressed as soliders in the colours of Florence and armed with rapiers.  Isabetta and her companions turned to run but quickly saw they were surrounded. 
The cloaked figure turned to them, revealing his long scar and cruel smile.
“Falco”, said Algeno.
“Yes”, said Falco, “Milenni agreed with my ‘paranoid delusions’ when found he was robbed. And Albizzi knew that Cosimo was expecting to obtain something today. We connected these facts, and here we all are…”
“Murderer! You killed my brother!”, screamed Isabetta.
 “Entirely possible”, mused Falco, “I kill a great many people – it’s something of a pastime of mine”
He addressed the soliders.
“Search them. Check them for weapons and find the documents”
Soldiers grabbed the boys and pushed them to the ground. The soldiers went through their clothes.
“Nothing”
Falco gestured to Isabetta.
“And her”
The soldiers looked uncomfortable, but searched Isabetta nonetheless.
“Nothing”
“Really?”, said Falco, “You cunning vixen. You have an accomplice – You four”. He indicated the four soliders who had searched the friends. “Stay with the prisoners. The rest of you, fan out and look for this man “. He described Sir John. The captain nodded and ordered the soliders to search the streets around the cathederal.
“So what am I going to do with you?”, Falco pondered, “Albizzi will likely want to thank you in person, so he won’t be happy if you are harmed…”
“Thank?”, spat Alegno.
“Oh yes.Thank”, replied Falco. “You see, Albizzi has been seeking to implicate the Medicis in a conspiracy for sometime. With Milenni he already has influence amongst The Eight; he just needed some obvious evidence of perfidy to have him arrested. Him and the rest of his mendacious family will be exiled from Florence”
“And us”, asked Adolfo, “will we be exiled to?”
“Exiled? You?”, laughed Falco, “No, if you’re lucky you’ll be simply hung. If you’re unlucky..”. He pulled a face of disgust. “… I can’t bear to think about it too much. Anyway”. He continued. “we’re getting ahead of ourselves. As I was saying,  Albizzi will want to speak to you first”
At that moment a priest came hurrying over.
“Gentlemen!, Gentlemen! This is hardly the place – this is a place of God”
Falco beamed.
“Ah! Just the man. Father”, he said conversationally, “Do you have a crypt or some other secure place I could use by way of a temporary cell? I will return shortly with more men to escort them to more secure accommodation, but for now I must join the hunt for their colleague”
“My lord”, the priest flustered, “It is hardly appropriate…”
“Father, I am operating with the blessing of the grand council. You would do well to obey me…”
The priest handed Falco a key ring.
“Take this. It opens the door to the crypts. You may place your prisoners there for a short time”
Falco accepted it with mock graciousness.
“Thank you father, may God look kindly on your loyalty.”
And then to the soldiers:
”Men, bring the traitors”
:
On the realisation that they were to be incarcerated in the crypt, Alegno’s spirits soared. He hoped that there was only one crypt, the one that they had passed through during their trip through the underground. It was. He tried hard, as he was sure the others were, to conceal his hope. The guards opened the gate to the crypt and thrust them inside, locking the door.
“And stay where we can see you. Don’t go wandering off or it will go the worse for you”, threatened the head of the detachment. He didn’t think there was any chance of escape, but clearly didn’t relish the thought of having to round up his charges from amongst the noble dead of Florence.
“Fat chance”, whispered Adolf, nudging Alegno. Sigismondo smiled. Isabetta looked puzzled. Algeno quickly and quietly explained. “This is the same place we left the underground. We can escape through the catacombs”.
They waited for a good opportunity. The moment came when the head cguard charged with holding the keys announced his intention to take a piss. He would need to leave the church; the priests took a dim view of people pissing in the church, however discretely they did it. They waited until they gauged that the soldier had reached the exterior of the building. Then they quickly got up and ran into the depths of the tomb.
None of the three remaining guards had been watching them at the time, which bought them a few extra moments. But is was not long before they heard the cry. “The prisoners have gone! Fetch the chief!”. They made their way to the catacomb entrance as quickly as possible. It was extremely dark in the crypt, but fortunately the priests kept a supply of tar-dipped torches and flint at the entrance of the catacombs. They lit one torch and took another as a spare.  
As before, they used the slope of the floor and the age of the remanants as a guide. After a good number of minutes exploring the morbid labyrinth they found the ladder that lead to the ancient drains. However, where previously the drains had been almost dry, a torrent now flowed. Rainwater from the city above was flooding into the sewers and turning them into underground rivers.
Adolfo looked concerned. “The water level is already high. We must hurry or be trapped”
They hurried, splashing through the thigh high water. At each junction they would pause while Adolfo searched his memory for the correct path. The water was getting deeper. Adolfo assured them that this was a positive sign: “It means we are getting near the river”.
The water was above their knees, when Adolfo stopped. The roof of the tunnel sunk and now dipped below the water line.
“I know where we are”, said Adolfo. “Listen. We’ll have to swim – it is narrow, but straight from here to the river. It’s about a 100 metres”
“Underwater. In the dark” responded Sigismondo. “Impossible”
“No, there are places where there will still be air. Ten strokes, then surface. Ten again, surface again. Then its just out to the river”, said Adolfo. “I have done it before. Although”, he continued, “the water was not so high then”
“Well”, said Sigismondo resignedly. “I see that we have little choice. Gentleman, Lady” he addressed them formally, “It has been a pleasure knowing you.”, he stripped off his shirt. “I will either see you at the Arno or in paradise”. He dived into the water and was gone from sight.
Isabetta stripped herself to her underclothes. Even with the terror in his heart he felt a stirring in his groin. Good god, he thought to himself, this is hardly the time. And a second later Isabetta two had gone. Adolfo was next. “see you on the other side”, he said and was gone.
Algeno removed his shirt took a deep breath and dived into the freezing stream. One, two, three, four, he counted. Five. He his head on the low roof. A brief moment of panic. Six, Seven, Eight. Two more strokes. He pushed up towards the ceiling and the hope of air. His head collided once again with the roof of the tunnel. He was still under water. He felt the pressure building in his lungs. Had he miscounted? Had his earlier collision put him off, or was the water level simply higher. If the latter was the case, he was dead. 
Unless.
We flipped himself onto his back, fingers dragging against the rough ceiling. He pushed his face up, his nose scratched the ceiling.
But his lips cleared the water. He released the gas in his lungs and took a deep breath. The void had been where Adolfo had predicted after all. He dived again, knowing there was no time to waste if he was to reach the next void before it filled.
Ten strokes later he pushed his lips against the ceiling of the second void. With air in his lungs once more, he continued his swim. The next time he surfaced, the tunnel’s dimensions had been restored and he was once again able to walk. The tunnel was also no longer dark: a dim grey light filtered in from the drain mouth head. Soaking and freezing Alegno made his way to the river where his friends awaited him.    
:
Some Miserables had built a bornfire in the shelter of the OtherBridg. Their feral faces regarded them with suspicion as they approached. Their leader stood and stalked towards them holding a metal rod. Sigismondo first raised his hands to show he had no weapons, then slowly reached for the coin purse still attached to his tight wet breeches. He threw the purse to the man. 
“Here. For a space by your fire and some clothes”, he propositioned.
He looked in it and nodded to Sigismondo’s group. The man turned back to his compatriots, holding the purse. The huddled figures shuffled to make space and the friends joined the wretched group. A woman took a coin and headed off, they gathered, to purchase drink.
While they would not now die from the cold, the clothes they had would be unsuitable for travelling. The plan, should anything go wrong, was to rendezvous with Sir John’s White Company at their camp outside Florence. If Sir John had escaped, he would meet them there. If not, the company would probably know what had befallen him. This was half a days walk along roads which would have turned to mud in the rain – they would need to be better equipped before they set off.
Alegno ventured to ask their hosts what news they had heard. The news was not good: Albizzi had, the rumours went, uncovered a Medici conspiracy to seize control of the grand council. At the same time as this had been announced, a gang loyal to the Medicis had attacked the Bargello. They had been beaten back by the city militia but the situation was tense. The Eight had responded with a series of arrests and the instigation of measures to ensure public safety – including a curfew and limit on the size of public gatherings. Cosimo Medici, along with many suspect supporters, was amongst the arrested.    
This would be a problem: they had clothes and even weapons, but these were all stored at Guido’s house.  If poor Guido had not been arrested, his house would certainly have been searched and was likely watched. But they had no better plan: they would not make it far as they were and they had already successfully undertaken more difficult tasks. Now that they were dry, they should set off as quickly as possible. Not least in case their hosts came to the conclusion that they were wanted persons and that others might pay generous coin to learn of their location. 
It was early evening. Although not yet curfew, the streets were quiet. Most people had reasonably concluded that it was best to stay indoors. The only people out were those who had nowhere to go, like the wretched Miserables. They skulked through the streets towards Guido’s house. The route they took was meandering: many quarters had fallen back on tradition, reinstated local militia and barricaded their historic boundaries. They also tried to avoid the soldiers on the public streets, who supplemented their Florentine colours with a badge bearing the Albizzi emblem.
Evening had turned into night before they reached the house. They heard the campanile bell ring, signalling the start of the curfew. The house was shuttered and no light spilled from around the edges of the shutters. They concluded that the house was empty; Guido was probably in custody. The crept through the yard at the front of the house; Adolfo inspected the door and in locked but unbarred. In a moment it was open. Suddenly a sound, from the courtyard. Alegno turned to see the dark shape of a cat run across the courtyard. 
“Nothing. A cat” he said, relieved.
Sigismondo frowned and walked quickly to the yard’s gate and stuck his head out into the street. He just caught the flicker of motion in the darkness. He ran back to the others.
“We must hurry”, he said seriously, “There was a watcher – he disturbed the cat”
They ran into the darkened house, caution now abandoned. The house was full of Guido’s treasures and awkward to navigate in the dark.  It took them far too long to find, and change into, more rugged travelling clothes. There were sounds of men from the street. 
Then Falco’s voice. “Do not kill them – they have information of great importance”
They quickly barred the door. From a crack in a shutter Alegno saw soldiers bearing torches approaching the house. A soldier slammed his shoulder against the door and the frame splintered.
“The door’s not going to hold”, said Adolfo. “We must get to the roof”
They were familiar with the house’s layout and were able to find their way to the third storey in the dark. Adolfo pulled open a shutter, revealing the relatively flat roof of the adjacent building. The was crash from the house below, followed by the shouts of men from within the house.
“The door’s given. Out you go”, Adolfo told Alegno. Alegno jumped. The fall had seemed short, and the harshness of the impact with the tiles surprised him. And the roof, which he had thought of as flat, seemed distinctly less so now that he was on it. The roof was slick with water from the earlier rain and he skidded down it, just managing to get enough of a grip to avoid plummeting into the street below. 
“Fuck”, exclaimed Alegno, scrambling back up the roof. “Isabetta, lower yourself down – I’ll help you”. He said.
“Quickly”, stressed Sigismondo, “The soldiers will be here any moment”
Isabetta dropped  herself out of the window, letting the window ledge take her weight. Then she released her grip and fell to the roof. She staggered, Alegno caught her.
“Adolfo”, said Sigismondo, “Now you. Ah, Fuck…”
Two soldiers burst into the room, rapiers ready.
“Go”, said Sigismondo. Adolfo flung himself out of the window. Sigismondo did not follow.
They scrambled across the roof, making their way along the apex of the neighbouring house. A soldier appeared at the window. 
“They are on the roof!”,he cried, but did not follow, sensibly gauging that the roof would probably not hold his weight.  The torches below began to scatter chaotically as soldiers were instructed to intercept the criminals. For a moment, the friends had the advantage. 
The streets of the city state were narrow. The encircling city walls gave little scope for expansion in any direction other than vertically, so the wealthy would add additional floors or towers to their residences. The soft fertile ground of the Arno valley did not always offer the best foundations, so these ambitious buildings would sometimes suffer from (assuming they did not simply fall down immediately) and alarming list.  This was the case with one of the buildings on Guido’s street. It was sufficiently tilted into the street that it nearly formed an arch with the roof of the building opposite. 
The building on their side was flanked with scaffolding, no doubt as part of an ongoing effort to correct the buildings unseemly posture. They clambered up the scaffolding to the roof and, trying not to acknowledge the vertiginous drop, stepped across the chasm of the street to the opposite side. 
They continued scrambling along the roof tops. They seemed to have lost their pursuers and could afford to take things more slowly. Algeno addressed Adolfo:
“What happened to Sigismondo? Is he okay”
Adolfo shook his head. “He fought them. They didn’t want to fight, but he gave them no choice…”
“What are you saying?”
“He’s dead, Algeno. They ran him through. He’s dead”
:
They lay low until dawn. They spoke little, subdued by Sigismondo’s death. In the morning, they left Florence. The gates were guarded, but Florence had not been subjected to siege for many years and the boundary of the city was far from tight. Adolfo knew a place popular with criminal gangs where the wall could easily be crossed. Here the wall was missing many bricks, some deliberately removed, and could easily be climbed. Once over, they set out on foot for the White Company encampment.
The roads were poor and the going was slow. Adolfo seemed to be struggling with a fever and they were all exhausted from their adventures. They could do little more than put one foot in front of another and hope that they would be well received at their destination. 
The White Company were encamped some miles from Florence. Conflict was unusual during the late autumn and winter, but the city paid them a stipend to retain their services. This helped ensure that they would not become employed by a rival state and was, in any event, a cheaper alternative to policing the increase in banditry and lawlessness that inevitably followed this disbanding of a military company.
The White Company encampment was well run by the standards of contractors and had more the aspect of a village than a temporary military base. The camp had its own forge and a number of wooden buildings. The wooden buildings housed stabling and the stores of food and weapons. The men were accommodated in canvas tents arranged in tidy lines. In the center of the camp stood a larger tent. This was the home of the commander.
It was towards this tent that Isabetta, Algeno and Adolfo made their way. The camp had little in the way of security and the three companions entered the camp amongst the usual camp followers of whores, merchants and tradesmens. Adolfo’s fever had become worse and he was no longer easily able to carry himself. 
A soldier stopped them as they approached the command tent. 
“State your business”, he said curtly.
“We are associates of Sir John – he asked us to meet him here. Has he returned?” said Alegno.
“Your names?”, the soldier asked.
“Alegno, Adolfo and Isabetta d’Arezzo”, replied Algeno.
The soldier thought for a moment, then nodded.
“Very well. Follow me”
The beckoned them to follow and marched towards the tent.
:

Sir John’s tent was decorated as comfortably as was practical. The walls were hung with furs for insulation and there was a small but comfortable bed. Sir John himself greeted them sat at folding campaigning table on which were the remains of a large fowl.
“Ah, my fellow companions!”, he said affably. His smile turned to a frown. “But I see only three of you. Where is Sigismondo?”
They told him.
“That is dark news”, he mused gloomily. He addressed an orderly. “Bring me some warm wine”
While they drank the wine, Sir John recounted his story. He had sensed something was wrong in Cathedral and had found a hiding place on the square. He had initially intended to see where the prisoners were taken and assess the practical problems of instigating a rescue. When he heard the alarm raised he  concluded that the prisoners had escaped and so proceeded to the agreed rendezvous. He had escaped entirely without injury – he had been unlucky and was apprehended by a guard on leaving the city. He managed to escape, but took a blow to his leg that rendered him unable to walk. He would have been caught, had he not been recognised by members of his own company who returned him to the camp.
“Which, unfortunately, means I cannot ride for the time being”
The documents, he assured them, were still safe. Furthermore he had learnt something of their content. The precise details were opaque, but the essence was that they contained articles of a contract of enormous importance. Important enough that if they might afford the Medicis considerable influence with other states if the details were known.
“But Cosimo d’Medici was arrested”, queried Isabetta.
Yes, and sent into exile. Executing him would have been difficult even with Albizzi’s influence, so exile it was. In this case, exile to Milan. 
“So”, said Sir John, “If you wish to revenge yourself on Albizzi, the best path may be to deliver the package to Cosimo in Milan. I would accompany you”. He flexed his leg and winced. “but I am useless for the time being. I can, however, supply you with good horses”. He looked at Adolfo. “For two of you at least; your friend does not look in any fit state to travel”
Adolfo had slumped into a heap. Isabetta put the back of her hand against his brow.
“He is burning with fever”
“He should remain here”, said Sir John, “He can be kept warm and attended by my surgeon. If its God’s will, he will recover”
“Thank you”, said Isabetta.
“In the meantime”, Sir John concluded, “the two of you should rest and eat. You have a long and dangerous journey ahead of you”
 :
 They were to leave at dawn.  If one were trying to make the best time to Milan, one would normally cross the hills due north and then head north west. Here the country was flat and the going would be easy.  But at this was the expected route, they would instead travel northwest from the outset. They would remain in the hills for the entire journey. They would have a better chance of evading pursuit if they were unlucky enough to be ambushed.  To this end, had recommended them two horses, both Coursers.  They were young and not yet fully grown. They were however, nimble and of good temperament, and familiar with the general terrain of the Tuscan hills.
Isabetta took Athena, a sable coloured mare. Algeno took the slighty smaller stallion, Jupiter. Their saddlebags held only essentials; bread and cheese, axes, flints and rudimentary camping equipment. Wrapped in the fur that would serve to protect them from the cold night was the binder with its valuable contents. Before leaving they checked on Adolfo and were pleased to learn that his fever was no worse and may even have subsided a fraction. He smiled weakly at them and wished them good luck.
The pair left in good spirits. The day was sharp and bright. A frost had formed overnight and left the countryside shrouded in a white blanket punctuated by the dark strokes of the bare cyprus trees. There was little traffic and they were glad that they had chosen a less obvious route; they would be easily spotted on the main roads. As they entered the shadow of the hills, the roads became more treacherous. Puddles on the roads had frozen into ice, forcing them to keep the pace slow and let the horses take their time. 
Isabetta smiled at Alegno. 
“How are you faring?” 
“I have not ridden for some months and I was never much of a horseman”, he admitted, “I will stiff as iron when we are finished”
“Men, I am told”, said Isabetta innocently, “boast of their stiffness, so you should be pleased, should you not?”
“Er … I don’t think it is a general stiffness to which they are referring”, said Algeno, becoming embarrassed. Damn the awful woman, he thought.
“Oh?”, said Isabetta, feigning ignorance. “A specific acute stiffness? In a particular organ perhaps?”
Alegno reddened and said nothing.
“Oh, I am teasing!”, laughed Isabetta, “I grew up with four brothers. I know all about men and their organs”
“All about?”, said Alegno, shocked. 
“Not quite all”, replied Isabetta, annoyed with herself at the twinge of embarrassment she felt. And a twinge of something else. “I am still very much a virgin, sir”, she said primly. She sat up straight in the saddle, holding herself in the manner of a mother superior.
“Holy sister, I did not mean to imply”, said Alegno in mock apology. Isabetta pretended to ignore him, then collapsed into giggles. “I would make a poor nun”.
:
The road wound around a ridge as it passed through the hills. On both sides of ridge were vineyards crossed by tangles of bare knotted vines. As they were walking along, the horses suddenly paused. Athena put her head up and raised her ears.
“What is it?”, Isabetta said to the horse, “What can you hear?”
This was answered a moment later when a pair of riders appeared above them along the crest of the hill to their right. For a moment it looked as if the riders had not seen them or had no interest in them. Then the lead rider turned and kicked his horse into a trot, urging the animal down the hill towards them. The second rider followed. Although they were some yards distant, Algeno could see they wore Florentine colours and were armed. How they had tracked them was unclear, but the fact there were only two suggested that this might simply be a pair of scouts who had stumbled on them by luck. Nevertheless, they could not afford an encounter so they had to escape.
Isabetta turned Athena down the hill and kicked the horse into a trot. Staying on was a problem as she was thrown from side to side like a rag doll. She pulled the reins to check the descent and felt him slow a bit. She risked a look back to see Alegno following; Isabetta hoped he would be okay.
The two riders had nearly descended the slope. They were shouting something, but Isabetta was too concerned with staying on to pay them any attention.  Grape vines whipped by on either side as they thundered over the rough ground. She could not afford the horse to injure itself or lose a shoe so she would have to relax the pace. Their pursuers were not gaining and their horses were also clearly unhappy with the terrain. She eased to a long trot, which was still brisk but easier to control.
The ground flattened out as they reached the bottom of the hill. Here a trail ran parallel to the vineyard. Isabetta saw  an opportunity to put some distance between them and the riders. She urged Athena into a canter and then a gallop. Athena could see the ground was flat and took little encouragement. The wind whipped into Isabetta’s face as they flew along the trail. Alegno was keeping up and the gap between them and the other riders had grown. 
A trail ahead lead up the hill into a patch of woodland. She pulled on the reins and turned the horse up the slope.  Athena’s rolling gait smoothed out as she started up the hill. The horse groaned with the effort and Isabetta found her face brushing against the lower branches of the trees. Large branches struck and she was thrown forward against the neck of the horse. Athena stumbled, Isabetta gripped his neck to avoid being thrown. She pressed the horse on through the woodland. The pace was dangerous and the horses would tire soon, but their best hope was that the riders on their larger horses would be unable or unwilling to keep up. Isabetta looked back again; their pursuit had not entered the wood and with every stride they were putting more woodland between them and their hunters. Isabetta checked the horse, who happily slowed, snorting out large frozen breathes. Alegno caught up.
“I think we lost them”, he said, clearly shaken by the violent ride.
They continued at a gentle walk through the wood until darkness started to fall. They would have to look for somewhere to camp. As night began to fall they came across a dried stream gully. This would afford them some shelter from the wind and, along with trees, hide their fire from anyone still searching for them. They tied the horses to the nearby trees and unpacked food and the fur from the saddle bags. While there was still a dim light, Alegno gathered dry kindling from the forest floor. A fire was shortly burning; not as large as he would have liked given the cold, but as large as he felt they could risk. 
He joined Isabetta under the fur. In the darkness he could easily see her pale face. She smiled at him mischievously. “And how stiff do you feel now, dear Algeno?”. She pulled him closer to him and he could feel the warmth of her thin muscular body through her travelling clothes. He wrapped his arm around her and pulled her face to his, feeling her breath against his cheek. Their lips touched in a chaste kiss. Then, with less chaste intentions, Isabetta pulled him much closer to her.
:
The following day was again cold and bright. The horses were walking along some ancient game that ran through the woods. The way was narrow and rough underfoot and the pace was slow, but neither of them felt like risking the road for now. There was too much danger of getting very lost however; so long as they kept the sun to their left and stayed in the hills they would be heading more or less northwest and would reach Milan in due course.
So, mused Isabetta, if I was worried about dying a virgin, at least that is a worry I can put to rest. Not that that was a concern she had ever consciously entertained. And given how slight a thing it was, it was hard to imagine that anyone else did. Although, she considered, I imagine it is one of those things that improves with practice. It had not been unpleasant at any rate.
She glanced at Alegno. He seemed distracted since the previous night, which inclined her to believe that their coupling may have been ill advised. More practice, she thought, might have to wait until this latest adventure is concluded. I would like my companion to be focused on the task at hand – it may be fine for folk tale princesses to have men dote on them, but a doting prince is not likely to get a princess killed. 
The day passed uneventfully. They saw a fortified village a few miles away, which they estimated to be … They had made better time than they thought and set up camp in a sheltered depression. The stars shone brightly and the night was icy cold, so they risked a larger fire. They pulled the fur over themselves. Alegno reached over to caress Isabetta and she pushed him gently away.
“Alegno”, she said kindly, “I am fond of you, but I think we should be less .. er .. intimate for the time being. We still have a long road ahead”. 
“Oh”, said Alegno, crestfallen. “Very well”
She kissed him tenderly on the cheek and curled up to sleep.  Good, she thought, he understands. 
:
Alegno woke cold and unhappy. What had he done to upset Isabetta? They had been lovers and now what? Was she one of these women who seduced men and discarded them as soon as they had satiated their lustful curiosity? He didn’t think so, but he was confused and upset all the same. Being careful not to wake Isabetta he got  up. After briefly checking on the horses and feeding them some oats from their supplies, he weandered into the forest. It was almost completely silent, the loudest sounds being his own feet crunching on the frosted forest floor. But suddenly, his contemplation was interrupted by the sound of some movement. He crouched and kept still, listening for a repeat the disturbance. Again he heard it: the sound of something moving amongst the bushes lower down the slope of the hill. He searched for a weapon and settled on sturdy branch that could serve as a quarterstaff. Still crouched he advanced down the hill in the direction of the noise. 
Alegno worried that it was a rider from the day before, or perhaps a bandit. If it was, then they must be facing down the hill or else they would have seen him. He would have the benefit of surprise. He hesistated, drawn between confronting whatever lay in the bush, and waking Isabetta. Waking his companion was clearly the right choice, so he started back up the slope. He had only gone a couple of steps when he stopped himself. Isabetta’s rejection of his advances had given form to a doubt that had been lying beneath the surface of his conscious mind. Was he not enough of a  man for her? In some ways she treated him more like a brother  – maybe she had difficulty seeing him as a lover.   He hefted his staff and stalked down the slope.
He approached the bush from where he was sure the noise had come. He could see or hear nothing, feeling slightly foolish he thrust his staff hard into the bush. The bush exploded as a large animal jumped out and ran up the slope. Once Alegnoi had regained his footing he looked up the slope to see what he had ambushed.
It was a large boar and it had not fled far. The animal had been startled, but it was not afraid of him. Algeno felt unease as the large animal turned towards him and studied him with its dark close set eyes. It was good sized animal ,for the most part grey haired but with a long mane of black bristles running between its shoulder blades and along its back. The animal planted its front legs akimbo and lowered its enormous tusked head. 
Algeno tensed with fear. Hunters and woodsmen treated boars with great respect. While wolves were a well known hazard, a lone wolf was rare a threat to a healthy man. Even packs would rarely attack unless they were starving or desperate. Wild boar, however, could be very dangerous. A sow defending her little was an animal as a dangerous as any mythical beast and a boar, especially if encountered during the rutting season, could easily kill  a man. Algeno had a nasty suspicion that this was the rutting season.
The boar made gave a couple of high picthec grunts and snorted frozen breath from its huge nostrils. It tensed its launches, lowered its head, and charged. Alegno felt his heart quicken and held the staff the in front to deflect the oncoming animal. The boar hit with tremendous force, throwing Alegno across its back. The smart wiry bristles of its mane scratched Alegno’s arm as he fell over the beast. He hurridly reached fior his staff as the animal wheeled around for another charge. 
It came at him again, once again knocking him to the floor. This time the staff was  out of reach. The boar watched him from the between the trees some yards away. Keeping his eye on the animal he raised himself slowly to his feet and tried to edge towards the staff. He kept his back to the slope in the scant hope that this might afford him some advantage when the boar charged again.
He had not reached the staff when the board charged for the third time. Algeno kept his eye fixed on the advancing animal and attempted to throw himself from its path just before the moment of impact. He misjudged it and felt the boar’s tusk slam into his upper thigh. He tried to stand, but found his legs giving way. With horror he saw the hole where the tusk had punctured his leg. Blood was rapidly coating his leg, which could no longer support his weight. He found himself facing the boar half kneeling, the boars vicious tusks now aligned with his heart. The boar tensed itself for a fourth and final charge.
Isabetta ran down the hill shouting. In both hands she held the bough of a tree. The finer branches of this bough, to which still hung some dried leaves, she had set alight in the ashes of their fire. She advanced condfidently towards the boar waving the burning wood. The boar maintained its tense stance for a moment, considering whether it should attack this new target. 
“Get away with you, pig!”, shouted Isabetta
The boar gave last series of high pitched grunts, then turned and ran into the forest. Isabetta dropped the still burning branch and ran to Alegno. Although she had no knowledge of healing, she could tell that the injury was serious. His mauled leg was sticky with the blood still leaving the wound, and Algeno himself has deathly pale and slipping into shock. With effort, she pulled him to his feet and took his weight on her shoulder. They climbed slowly back up to their camp. Isabetta did her best to stop the flow of blood, but she had no skill in this and quickly realised they would need help.
“What were you thinking?”, she said to the barely conscious Alegno.
Isabetta knew that there was no choice other than to take Algeno to Castelliano Nouvo. It was a substantial risk; the village and its castle lay on an important crossing and road the passing through the village was frequently used by travellers passing through this part of the Apenine hills. The village would have an Inn and with luck the innkeeper would know of a  surgeon who could stop the bleeding and attend to the wound. But in a village this small, there would be no possibility of concealing themselves and news of their arrival would quickly spread. Isabetta, however, had lost too many friends and was not about to lose another. 
Alegno was barely conscious when, with her help, he mounted his horse. It was not far to the village, but Isabetta was afraid that Alegno would not make it. They made their way down the side of the hill as quickly as they dared, each jolt threatening to throw Algeno from the saddle. After a nerve fraying descent they found themselves in the village of Castelliano Nouvo.
The village sat on the southern side of the valley. On the northern side was the Castle itself, which was joined to the village by a large single span stone bridge. This relatively recent addition had turned the village from an unremarkable settlement to an important destination for traffic heading from the coast to the cities of Milan and Bologna. The “NameOfInn” was an important establishment, and its size reflected this. It was a large two storey building, surrounded by stables and numerous other out buildings. Leaving  Alegno atop his horse, she went quickly to the Inn’s public common room and sought out the Inn keeper.
The Innkeeper was a large practical woman who had inherited the business on the death of her husband. Isabetta told her what had happened, feeling no need to lie in the circumstances. The woman took one look at Alegno and frowned.
“He has lost a lot of blood. We must get him inside and look at the wound”
With evident authority she recruited two men from the common area and had them carry Alegno upstairs. Unlike many Inns, the size of the “” mean that it had both private and common rooms. Algeno was accommodated in a private room on the Inn’s second story, overlooking the bridge and the swollen beneath it. There was no surgeon within the village, but the brothers in the monastery at ?  had skills in healing that were greatly admired, so, once terms were agreed, a messenger was sent to fetch one of them. In the meantime, the Innkeeper – whose name, it emerghed, was Rosa – found an old soldier with appropriate experience. He pronounced the wound series, but that Algeno had been lucky and the bleeding was slowing. He would be weak for some days, though, and it was not yet clear how damaged his leg was. There was also the danger of fever. 
Isabetta thanked the Inn keeper for her help and charity and paid her generously. She confided that they were young lovers (“the best lie has hint of truth in it, after all” she reasoned) eloping without her parent’s consent. She would be grateful if she would warn them if anyone came looking for them. The Innkeeper winked and said she would.
She checked on the horses. They were both being looked after and seemed content. Satisfied with this, she considered the layout of the stable. The stable had a small hayloft which she thought would suit her purposes. She checked no one was around and then removed the doucments from her saddle bag. She wrapped them in the fur and quickly climbed the ladder to the loft. She then proceeded to conceal the bundle at the back of the loft and covered it with hay. After a quick glance to check that she remained unobserved, she returned down the ladder.

Isabetta stayed in Algeno’s room. The Innkeeper had food – a strongly flavoured stew of, ironically enough, wild boar and beets – and ale bought. Alegno was in no state to eat, but Isabetta found she was starving and ate with enthusiasm. They could not decide what she should do next, but was too exhausted to think about it. As evening fell she lay her head on Alegno’s bed and fell into a deep sleep.
:  
Isabetta woke early to find Alegno already awake and looking puzzled.
“Where are we? How did we get here?”, he asked bemused.
“An Inn in the valley”, said Isabetrta, “How? I got your useless lump of a body onto a horse and brought you here.”. She checked the note of annoyance in her voice and managed a smile. “Congratulations on not being dead. What happened?”
“I heard a sound, I went to take a look”
“You didn’t think to wake me?”
“I thought”, he began sheepishly, “you would like me better if I was braver, more like Sigsmondo, so I …”
“What?”, she said angrily, “This is about us? JesusMaryAndJospeh, did you not listen to what I said? Sigismondo? Yes, be more like him by all means – I am sure corpses make much better lovers” 
She stormed to and fro across the narrow room, hand on her forehead.
“Jesus and all the saints!”, she said, “What I said was what I meant. We should complete this journery first. Then – we will see. But”, she continued calming down, “I am not in principle against us rutting till we’re raw. Just not now”
“’Rutting til we’re raw?’ – you certainly have a turn of phrase, my lady ” 
“Hmm. Prehaps not the most lady-like phrasing.”. She shrugged. “Raised by wolves”
Their playful bickering was interrupted by a hammering on the door.
“Milady”, shouted the Innkeeper urgently , “there are men from castle waiting for you downstairs.”
Panic. If these are Albizzi’s men, we are finished, she thought. 
“Go”, urged Alegno, “The horses will be fresh, you can outrun if you make you leave now”
She shook her head. “I do not think my chances would be good – if they are from the castle, they will know the terrain well and probably have allies they can call on to cut off any escape. And what will you do?”
“I can perhaps delay them..”
“After everything we have been through”, she interruoted, “I am not about to freely offer you the chance to be a hero.”
She thought quickly. “I do not believe they are acting on Albizzi’s orders: if they were they would have felt no need to be so polite.”
“Then what?”, he flexed his injured leg and winced with the pain. “Jesus”, he cursed.
“I don’t know”, she admitted, “But I have concealed the papers at the back of the stable hayloft. If they do not come for you and I do not return”
Alegno started to speak. She silenced him with a raised finger.
“If I do not return”, she continued, “As soon as you are fit enough take the papers to Milan. I will join you, God willing, as soon as I can.”
“If anything should happen to you …”, Alegno begun again.
“Yes, yes – you will hunt them down and make them sorry. Knowing that truly warms by heart”, she said with more than a trace of sarcasm.
“You’re making fun of me”, said Alegno aggrieved.
She sighed, and said more tenderly. “I am – hard though it might be for you to accept – of good birth. These are not common bandits, I do not think I need to fear for my life”
She splashed some water on her face from an earthern ware bowl. She suspected that she still looked like an urchin, but there was nothing that could be done. She made her way slowly downstairs.
Three men stood in the common room. Two were soldiers wearing tabards bearing the lion rampant arms of the local fortress. They flanked a handsome young man dressed in the manner of a lord; leather breeches of good quality with a slashed surcoat covering a silken shirt. He was wearing an excellent fur coat against the cold and held a goblet of wine. He beamed at her as she turned towards him.
“Milady!”, he said cheerfully, “Welcome to Castelnouvo! Please accept my apologies for not having greeted you on your arrival. I am assured that the good woman here”. He looked at the Innkeeper, who bowed her head in deference, “has taken good care of you”
Something about the man was familiar. She searched her memory – where had she seen him before? Then it struck her. After her success in the Palio she had been introduced to many men – minor nobles and friends of her brothers. She grappled for a name.
“My lord Estensi?”, she said. It came out as question.
“I told you she would recognise me!”, he said to the man on his right.
“Indeed, my lord” 
 He turned to Isabetta again
“Isabetta d’Arezzo! My men told me of  your arrival: ‘a young woman of good birth but wild appearance’. When they described you in more detail, I knew it could only be you! You are not travelling alone, I understand”
“I am not” she said curtly.
“A young man, I’m told. A friend or a lover?”, he asked directly.
“Both? I understand that is possible”
Estensi laughed. “Of course! Although from what I hear of the state of him, it is clearly hard and dangerous work. Anyway”, he continued, “to my main purpose. Your business is your own, I come only to offer you my hospitality and the hope that the two of you – if your friend is fit enough – will join me for dinner tonight?”
Isabetta agreed, very much relieved. Esteni, from what remembered, had been a charming guest at the earlier party. He had been genuinely delighted at her victory and good company. The devil in her also sensed an opportunity to gently punish Algeno for the trouble he’d caused.
Alegno was not keen on the invitation. Estensi had assured Isabetta that every provision would be made for his comfort. The journey to the castle was not a long one: it lay just the other side of the bridge only few a yards from the Inn. Estensi would send men with a stretcher to carry Alegno. Alegno, however, remained unconvinced. He winced at Isabetta’s description of Estensi as handsome and rich. 
Alegno was further discomforted when Isabetta took delivery of a dress. This was accompanied by a message delivered by a castle servant:
“I hope you will not consider me impertinent, but I suspect you have few clothes with you. You may, of course, attend in whatever suits you. However, you may also be more comfortable in this dress. I am assured that the cut is fashionable and the quality of materials good. I hope it fits you”
To Alegno’s annoyance, it fit perfectly.
:
The evening found them crossing the bridge to the castle. Isabetta walked while Alegno was stretchered by two servants. The castle itself was small, dominated by a large round tower. This flanked one side of a gate, the other being made up from the castle wall. This wall surrounded a small courtyard, off of whicvh were the kitchens, stables and other utility buildings. It was not a substantial fortress, but adequate enough to defend the strategically important crossing. Torches had been mounted on either side of the gate to welcome the visitors.
The main hall was the on the first floor of the tower. Alegno had to leave the stretcher and climb the wooden stair that ran around the inside of the keep. He was supported by the one of the servants and grimaced with every step. Still, Isabeta noted, he did seem to be taking some weight on his injured limb. This was good and suggested the damage was not that serious.
Estensi greeted them in the hall. The hall was not as lavishly decorated as a Florentine Palazzo and it was clear that the Estensi’s family’s taste was more provincial. The furniture was good quality, but functional with non of the additional decoration that she had seen in Milenni’s Palazzo. The thick wall hangings depicted contemporary hunting scenes rather than episodes from classical myth.
They were to be joined for dinner by Estensi’s sister and his uncle. His father, he revealed was away in Parma with the majority of the household. He was nominally in charge, although what management needed to be done was left to his uncle. Estensi’s sister, the Lady Fiora, was bethroved to a minor Milanese nobleman, an arrangement made in support of a complex web of alliances and obligations rather than for any romantic reason.
Dinner was a wide selection of pies, cheeses and cooked meat. This was consumed with a strong  Bolognese wine. 
“We may not be as sophisticated here in the provinces”, Esteni boasted, “but we live well”
The atmosphere was congenial. Whether the senior Estensi would have approved of this gathering was hard to say. Estensi’s uncle put up no complaint and seemed to be in an indulgent mood. Isabetta understood that life was generally quite dull in castelnuovo and their arrival had been seen as a welcome distraction. On being asked the reason for their journey, the two friends maintained the same story as before: they were eloping. Fiora was visibly shocked. Estensi laughed and said it did not surprise him. Their hosts did not press for any further information.
After dinner there was music.
“You are welcome to stay; I am sure we can make your friend more comfortable here than at the Inn. I will have a chamber made up”, said Estensi.
Normally the idea of a unmarried woman sleeping in such close proximity to a man who was not her husband would be greatlyu frowned upon. The Estensi household did not seem all that concerned however. Isabetta accepted the invitation, and a servant escorted them to a stateroom on the same level as the hall in a building abutting the northwest wall of the castle.
Algeno had been quiet throughout the meal. Isabetta turned to him:
“A fine gentleman, I think. Quite my match, I should think. Brave, handsome, wealthy…”
Alegno said nothing but looked distressed.
“And I could have that - I have been offered that. I only have to release one thing: my freedom. Look at his sister: my age and her life is all but over. She is to become some bauble passed between noble men in exchange for land or influence”. She took Algeno’s hand. “You dear Alegno, have nothing”, She kissed him on the lips and pulled him to her.
:
They were woken early in the morning by a knock on the chamber’s door. One of Estensi’s servants told them to dress and meet him in the castle’s hall. They dressed quickly in the dark: It was not yet dawn and very little light penetrated the room from the shuttered embrasure. Dressed they joined a grim faced Estensi.
“Isabetta, what have you become involved in? Not politics, I hope”
“I may not have been completely honest…”
He raised his hand to silence any further conversation. “I do not want to know. What I do know is that men – armed men bearing Florentine colours – are asking for you at the Inn. They will shortly learn you came here, and if you do not want to encounter them you must leave now”
“How many men?”, asked Algeno.
“a half dozen or so, I do not know exactly. They are lead by an extravagantly dressed man with a long scar – is he familiar to you?”
“Falco”, said Isabetta.
“I see”, said Estensi, “they have some authority, I am afraid, so I will not be able to protect you. You must go before it gets light – do not take the bridge, head s short way down river and you will see a narrow track. It leads to the old ford and you can cross the river there. There is another track on the other side that will take you back up to the Inn. With good fortune your horses will still be there, although I doubt anything of any value will be”
“Thank you for your advice”, said Isabetta, “But Alegno can barely walk, let alone cross a river in darkness and escape on horseback”
Estensi nodded. “I have considered this. Here”, he pasted Alegno a leather pouch containing what appeared to be leaves, dried and similar to basil in appearance. “This is a herb my lord father takes when his gout troubles him: chewing the leaf releases a potent drug that numbs all pain.”
They thanked Estensi. Estensi supplied Isabetta with practical cloths for travelling -  her other clothes still being at the Inn. Then they slipped out of the castle gate into the near darkness of the early morning. A hard frost had formed overnight and the ground was slippery underfoot. At first every step was agony for Alegno, but the pain gradually subsuded as the exotic  plant took effect. By the time they had reached the narrow to the river, the pain had largely vanished.
Crossing the river was treacherous. Heavy rain in the low Apenine mountains had swollen the river and they could not have crossed it were it not for a fallen tree that had become lodged at the ford. They gingerly made their way along its cold bark, their cloaks keeping them protected from the spray thrown up by the river. Isabetta glanced up at the bridge, a dark black arch against the grey  the dawn sky. With a start she observed a line of horsemen starting to proceed across the bridge; they hurried on with greate urgency. Estensi, Isabetta knew, would only be able to  delay Falco for a brief time. The castle was not large and even a complete search would not take long. When they did not find what they were looking for, they would return to the Inn.
They reached the opposite bank and began the climb up to village.  They were cautious in case Falco had decided to leave one or more of his men to watch the Inn. Isabetta went first slipping stealthily into the stable yard. Seeing no one, she signalled Algeno to join her. The horses were both still present, but what about the documents. She climbed quickly to the hay loft and was happy to see her bundle was undisturbed. She quickly returned it to Athena’s saddlebnag  and set Alegno the task of readying the horses. She herself went hastily to the Inn to obtain a few supplies for the journey ahead.
As Isabetta left a stable hand entered. He regarded Alegno with curiosity but said nothing. The boy began mucking out the horses, but would  glance at Alegno every moment. While he was sure the boy was watching him, Alegno removed the parcel from Isabetta’s horse and transferred it to a bag on his own animal. Simulating disinterest, he waited for the boy to leave or become engaged in some task. After a few moments a chnace presented itself when the boy’s view of Algeno became blocked by a stall. Alegno quickly swapped the package back to Isabetta’s horse.
Isabetta returned with supplies of bread, cheese and some feed for the horses. It was not yet light, but it was no longer night and they had to leave immediately if they were to pass in front the castle without attracting attention. They had no choice but to cross the river at this point, since they would need to take the Rome road to Parma. They walked their horses onto the bridge and observed the castle opposite. Isabetta once again feared that Falco would leave a man on the junction between the castle and the road. Once again, they were fortunate: it seemed that Falco had felt the need to deploy all his men to search the castle for themselves and the valuable papers.
They trotted quickly past the castle and took the Rome road along the side of the valley. They would follow this for half a day before taking a steeper road across the northern range and down towards Parma. 
The horses were rested and the road was good. They frequently looked back down the long straight valley, but by midday there was still no sign of Falco or his men. They started to feel confident that Falco was not pursuing them. Prehaps Estensi had convinced Falco that they had taken a different route, or …
Isabetta’s spirits fell. A flicker of motion in the valley behind them quickly revealed itself to be train of horsemen. Falco’s men, only perhaps a few hours behind them. They pressed on, glancing back ever more anxiously to measure the progress of their pursuers. The conclusion Alegno drew was not a happy one:
“They gaining on us; they will be with us before nightfall at this rate”
Much as Isabetta wished to deny it, there was no doubt Alegno was right. After a few more hours of riding, they could make out Falco quite clearly. He, no doubt, could do the same. A head the road vanished from sight as it tracked the contours of the valley. They would shortly be lost from sight. Alegno knew what they needed to do.
“Isabetta”, he said, “I have a plan. You will not like it”. She frowned. “They will believe that the documents they are searching for are with me. They had planted a spy at the Inn to watch the horses and I arranged a deception. We have reached the north road; you take it and I will continue along this path.”
“No”, said Isabetta firmly. “Falco will kill you”
“I don’t think so. You heard him back in Florence. Albizzi needs to make a case against the Medici, for that he needs conspirators. He needs me”
“To torture. Again, no”
“What other option do we have?”, pleaded Algeno, “As it stands we will both be caught. If you go on alone, you can reach Milan. If Cosimo Medici is as trustworthy as they say, then he will honour our deal and can perhaps help.”
“It is a poor plan”, said Isabetta, resigned.
“I know. But I see no other”. He grinned. “On a positive note, at last I get to protect you from harm” 
“You prick”, said Isabetta and reached over to kiss him fully on the mouth. She kicked her horse into a trot and turned onto the narrow road. After a few minutes she turned and saw Alegno wave at her from the trail below. She waved back, glad that, at this distance, he would not be able to see the tears welling in her eyes. 
:
It was nightfall when Falco caught up with Alegno. They ordered him to stop and he obeyed. Men immediately dismounted from Falco’s party and searched the saddle bags.
“Nothing”, announced the man in charge of the search.
“Nothing?”, said Falco angrily, “That idiot stable boy. Remind me to teach him a lesson when we return”. Then to Alegno. “I am not going to ask you where your friend is – I will find her soon enough. As for you…”. He removed a dagger from its sheaf and toyed with it contemplatively, “…I should gut you here and now and leave you for the beasts. But ”, he smiled nastily, “it is not your lucky day. Instead I am shall be taking you back to Albizzi who will treat far less kindly”
The road took Isabetta up into low range. The road twisted and turned as it followed the contours of the hills and a journey that she gauged would only take a few hours ended up taking the remainder of the day. The higher hills were largely treeless and would serve as pasture for sheep in the summer months. There was still grass, though, which kept her horse happy and meant she did not need to draw on her meagre supplies. Shepards had also built crude shelters for themselves and their animals. She found one hidden from the road to serve as her camp.
She was cold, lonely and unable to sleep, so sat up chewing on bread with the hard, strongly flavoured cheese this region was reknowned for. Once or twice she thought she heard hooves pass close by. With any luck her enemies had passed her in the night. 
Morning came with a heavy, wet, fog. She could see very little of the way ahead and found herself stopping frequently to listen for the approach of riders. It was on one such occasion that she heard singing. A womans voice. This seemed unlikely to be her pursuers, but she was tense and nervous and felt no need to take chances. She took the horse off the road into the pastureland and away from the road. She commanded the animal to stay still; it shuffled disobediently for a moment but quickly settled. Stationary, she should be invisible to anyone on the road who was not staring directly at her.
A rider approached still singing: A song in French she did not recognise. The rider stopped; Isabetta’s heart stopped – the rider was looking directly at her. A voice called out.
“Show yourself!”
A voice she recognised.
“Lady Hawkwood?”, she said, slowly walking her horse back towards the road.
“My dear child!”, cried her Ladyship, “Come here!”. Lady hawkwood dismounted and ran to Isabetta, who fell from her horse into the Lady’s arms.
It emerged that their meeting had not been a coincidence. Unable to come himself, Sir John had sent his capable wife north to Parma. Arriving there to find no word of two young people, she freared the worst. She headed south with the intention of enquiring at Castelnouvo. On her way south, however, she had encountered two riders. Playing the role of haughty mother superior ( really the only single woman anyone would expect to see on the road ) she asked them for news of the road and teased from them their business. This lifted her spirits: while Alegno had been caught, he was still alive and unharmed. And Isabetta was likely hiding in the hills. She settled on the plan of singing in the hope that Isabetta would hear and perhaps recognise her.
Isabetta told her that the documents were safe. With that news, Lady Hawkwood urged Isabetta back onto her horse.
“We must make for Milan”, she said. “With their contents, I still think we have some chance of helping your friend”
They spent a discreet night at an Inn outside Parma and arrived in Milan the following morning. Lady Hawkwood wasted no time in using her influence to secure an audience with Cosimo Medici. Medici had so far spent his exile as a guest of the Duke of Milan. He lived in a lavish set of apartments within the Duke’s grand Palazzo, and it was in these that the two women shortly found themselves.
Cosimo recived them in his audience chamber. Cosimo sat on a chair-like throne on a raised dias, and was dressed in a rich red cloak that put one in mind of a cardinal. He was attended by two servants They curtsied as best they could in their weather-worn clothes. Cosimo spoke to his servants.
“Leave us”
The servants nodded and left. Cosimo got off his throne and walked over to the women.
“Isabetta d’Arezzo”. He kissed Isabetta’s hand.”It is once again my pleasure to receive you. You have something for me?”
“I do, subject to an amended offer”
“Continue”
“That you will offer me such assistance as you can to help my friends?”
Cosimo smiled.”I think you will find that our interests greatly align. Your friend is being held by Albizzi?”
“he is”
“Then your friend is my friend. May I see the documents now?”
 Isabetta handed them to him. He inspected them, nodding. “Good, good. This looks in order”. He turned back to the ladies. “They are enciphered, of course, but the form of them looks correct. You will join me for dinner tonight”
“If your lordship permits, I need to return to Florence”
“I will ensure you do so by the speediest of means - But after dinner. I need to decode the cipher and consider the contents. Having done so, I may discover some stratagem that will profit us both”

Alegno hands were manacled to the wall above his head. They had been deliberately set slightly to high for him to comfortably stand with his feet flat. He had to constantly push himself up on the balls of his feet to relieve his arms and ease his breathing. He had been kept like this for two hours and pain in his legs, arms and back was excrutiating. 
He was being held in a cell in the Bargello. The cells were in the basement of the building and were used to hold prisoners undergoing interrogation or pending execution. As such the cells were intended to maximise discomfort and weaken the will.
Alegno heard people on the stairs. Albizzi himself, accompanied by a guard, entered the dungeon.
“Take him down”, he ordered the gaoler.
The gaoler sullenly got up and released Algeno from his manacles. He collapsed on the soiled straw of the cell.
“I am here to tell you that your woman has not been found – I am sorry to say she has most likely died from cold or been taken by wolves”. He clasped his hands together. “So, you are of little use to me now. Your crimes”
“What crimes?”, moaned Alegno with all the defiance he could muster.
“Your crimes of aiding the enemies of the state”, he continued, “merit the harshest punishment the law allows. You will hung head first from the palazzo de’lla signora, with your belly open. A terrible punishment for a terrible crime.”
Alegno winced in horror.
“I am sorry”, said Albizzi, “I really am. It’s nothing personal, but an example has to be made of someone. The least I could do is tell you myself”. He turned to leave. “You will hand on the ? of December, along with your co-conspirators.”
He left Alegno whimpering on the floor of his cell.
:
During dinner Cosimo thanked the women for his help.
“I have examined the papers. I will tell you what they contain – they form the basis of a contract between the family of Medici and Pope Eugene. Once they are signed and sealed, the Bank of Medici will be the exclusive lender of his holiness.”
The women looked blank.
“It is a matter of some importance”, Cosimo said modestly. “As the Pope’s banker the house of Medici can expect to be able to exert some influence on the holy see, not to mention the tawdry matter of the interest the Medici will receive on the loans”
“So this was all about money? My brother died – and Alegno for all I know - just for a few florins?” said Isabetta angrily
“Money, power. Sadly, yes”
“How can money help us? What are you going to do, buy an army and invade Florence?” she said facetiously.
Cosimo beamed broadly. “That is exactly what I am going to do”
The women gradually realised the size of the sums involved. This relationship would turn the Medici’s from rich bankers to a major force on the Peninsula. Cosimo would approach the Duke of Milan with details of his new status. The Duke of Milan, he confided, has no money. He desperately needs funds but would not act on Florence without the knowledge that his actions had the backing of other important authorites such as Rome. With the document the women had provided him, Cosimo would convince the Duke to “lend” him his army. He would march on Florence.
This would take some days. The women would return to Florence and contact people loyal to the Medicis within the city state. If Alegno was alive but in danger, the same people could perhaps provide assistance. There was, though, little time to waste.
Cosmio made arrangements. The women were supplied with fresh horses and two soldiers drawn from Cosimo’s personal retinue. They would ride south east by the most direct route bearing letters of instruction marked with Cosimo’s seal. This, along with money Cosimo had provided, would secure them fresh horses from the Inns and post-houses they passed. They would reach Florence in two days and re-enter the city covertly.
They left well rested. The day was bright and crisp and they set off at once. Unlike the earlier journey, the roads were some of the best in the peninsula, well maintained commercial arteries between Milan, Parma, Bologna and Florence. There was also no need to conserve the energy of the horses and they quickly found themselves going from a trot to rapid canter. The air rushed through her hair and her optimism and energy returned. She had friends and resources once again; she would rescue Algeno and bring Falco and his master to justice.  
:
On the night of the second day they reached the White Company camp. Sir John was once again mobile, although still suffered from a slight limp. Adolfo was well, the fever having completely left him. He was glad to see Isabetta, having heard rumours of her arrest and detainment.
“Falco arrived the same day you left; someone in the camp must have informed him”, he explained. “They did not enter the camp, but they somehow discovered the route you took and planned to cut you off”
“They tried”, said Isabetta, “We were able to outride them on that occasion. Not so on the next. Algeno was taken”
“That is ill news”, responded Adolfo dolefully.
Isabetta described their adventures. Adolfo listened thoughtfully.
“We must leave the camp quickly. Tonight, I think. It is likely your arrival has been reported and while Albizzi will not enter this camp – he does not want a confrontation – he will be on his guard and try and watch the cIty gates closely”
Isabetta gave Adolfo the list of contacts that Cosimo had supplied. 
“I know some of these names”, he said. “Petty criminals for the most part, although all have some grudge against Albizzi. I presume he wants to incite unrest – well, these are the men to do that. I know where to find them”
At midnight they re-entered the city and made their way carefully through the check points and guard posts. Adolfo brought them to the home of their first contact; he looked at Cosimo’s credentials and hurried them into his basic home.
“The city is still under Albizzi’s control. He is rounding up “dissidents” and taking them to the bargello. On the ? he intends to make a demonstration of his authority and publically execute ring leaders in the Piazza della signora.”
And Alegno, asked Isabetta anxiously?
“My contacts in the Bargello tell me he is still alive, but under sentence of death.  He will he thrown from the Palazzo Vecchio  as part of Albizzi’s public display”
Dear god, thought Isabetta in horror. What can we do? This was in less than a week’s time. She had hoped that Cosimo’s Milanese force would arrive before Algeno was sentenced, but this was not to be the case.
“There is one slender hope. There are few cells in the Bargello, so less dangerous prisoners who no longer need to be interogated are being transferred to le Stinche. While it is a prison, it is normally only used for debtors and petty criminals, and far less secure. We can break him out”
Adolfo thought about the suggestion. “We will a safe house from where we can monitor the prison and observe the comings and goings. And even then, we will be cutting it very fine, maybe only days before he is due to meet his end”
“Or the same day”, said their contact.
“That would surely be more dangerous”
“Or not. My instructions are to create unrest in the city; the best time to do that will be the day of the hangings when the streets are most crowded. In any event, I can provide you with a house overlooking the prison. Let me know what you decide” 
Insert prison sequence from earlier here instead. Rather than Falco killing Sigismondo and the heroes escaping, Falco pursues them. They reach street level with a riot underway. Isabetta finds herself standing off against Falco.
Isabetta hit the street hard. A wave of pain swept up her legs and back. She stumbled out into the road, her legs shaky and her vision blurred. She was dazed but otherwise,  bruised but otherwise uninjured. She searched the street for any sign of pursuit and saw none. Florence was in chaos; to her right away from the Piazza della signora, a crowd of rioters approached. Ahead of them were scattered looters and other criminals who were taking advantage of the chaos. A few of these were engaged in scuffles with the owners of the properties they were attacking. The owners had armed themselves with whatever weapons they had to hand; mainly cudgels, but also swords and other illegal weapons, no doubt relics of military careers. The street was surprisingly brightly lit by the rioters torches and Isabetta made out a number of bodies in the street; some of them soldiers.
Isabetta ran left, towards the square. She turned onto via .. to see the way blocked by city milita. They had set up a cordon to defend the square from the rioters. There was no way, through. She  turned back the way she came and saw, to her distress, the figure of Falco amongst the rioters. She pressed her back to the building in the hope that in the darkness she would not be seen. He advanced down the street towards her, frightened she looked for a weapon. She saw a sabre still in the hand of a dead soldier, further away a bow and quiver. It was lying some way away from its owner, who lay slumped against the side of a looted shop. Not a useful weapon in the circumstances but probably the best arm the poor man could find in time.
Falco came closer, slashing the air in front of himself with his sword. He looked threateningly at the rabble , who backed off at the sight of his scarred and twisted face.
“I am looking for a young woman!”, he bellowed, “An enemy of the state!”. Falco walked up to a man busily inspected the space behind a buildings breached shutters. In a single motion he grabbed the man and ran him through with his sword. He wiped his blade on the dead man’s surcoat and addressed the surrounding rabble.
“Anyone?”, he asked.
Isabetta saw a looter looking in her direction. The man hesitated before pointing at her.
 “A woman! There!”, said the wretch. Falco turned to look at Isabetta and smiled nastily,.
Isabetta flung herself towards the sword. Shaking with fear and excitement, she pulled the sword loose from the body. She weighed it in her right hand; it has heavy and felt awkward. She pointed the tip towards Falco ion what she hoped was a threatening manner.
“Ah! Lady Arezzo!”,said Falco jovially. “There you are! A pretty chase you’ve lead me”
“Stay back, you whoreson”, threatened Isabetta.
“Or what?, said Falco chattily. He advanced confidently towards her.
Indeed what, thought Isabetta. Picking up the sword had been a desperate gesture. The sword was an alien weapon to her and she had no skill with it. Falco, however, was an experienced swordsman who would easily cut her down. 
Falco came within her range. She made a clumsy lunge; Falco casually deflected it. She attempted another; Falco brushed it aside as if it was a noisome insect. He was toying with her.
“Surely you can do better than that, my lady”, he teased. He stepped lightly  to one side, easily dodging Isabetta’s impotent lunge. His sword passed across Isabetta’s shoulder, drawing a red line in her flesh. She clenched her teeth against the sharp pain and desperately tried to think of some means of escape. She knew that Falco would soon bore of this charade. When he did, he should disarm and subdue her as easily as a parent would take charge of an unruly child.  
From the far end of the street came the sound of violence. Two soldiers on horseback had entered the street and confronted the mob. They swung their swords to injure and disperse the crowd. The rioters responded with their makeshift weapons; agricultural implements for the most part with hoes being used as makeshift pikes. The large horses were war trained and not paniced by the rabble, but the soldiers were struggling, having under estimated the size of the mob they were going to face. One soldier broke free of the engagement and started to come up the street towards them. Just as he broke free of the main mass, he was caught with then end of hoe. It lodged in his jerkin just as he kicked his urged his animal into a gallop and he was unbalanced and unhorsed. He fell to the stone street along with his assailent. The horse, confused and riderless, continued to run up the street.
Facing up the street towards Isabetta, Falco was unaware of this. Isabetta, though, saw what might be her best and only opportunity. Gambling, she dropped as low as she could and lunged at Falco’s left leg. It was an unexpected move; the lower part of the body was not normally a target and Isabetta was much smaller than Falco’s normal opponents. She cam in below his guard and scored a hit against his already injured leg. It was a not a terrible wound, but it exacerbated the existing pain and caused Falco to stumble and curse.
“You little bitch!”, he said, all playfulness gone. He lunged angrily at Isabetta; a proper killing thrust this time. Fortunately for Isabetta, his balance was off and the blow passed through the fabric of her surcoat rather than her heart. He planted  himself more firmly and prepared to attack again.
At the point the horse came running between them; Isabetta grabbed the loose rein to the stay the horse. She was dragged along the street by the racing animal and for a moment feared it would not stop.  Then the animal sensed her prescence and stopped, allowing her to swing herself onto the animal’s back. She still held the sword, reluctant to release her only weapon even though it had barely helped her. The animal, being use to the battlefield where one might lose a rider and gain another in short order, was unphased by the events and seemed willing to obey Isabetta’s instructions. 
At this juncture, the best plan would be escape. However circumstances had momentarily conspired to offer her an advantage. A narrow window, she sensed, had opened and this might be her only chance to avenge Francesco.
She turned the horse, but instead of trying to break through the rioters and escape the street, she headed to where she had seen the bow. She lent from the saddle and using the sword as a hook, flicked the bow and guiver into her reach. There were only a few arrows in the quiver, but, she thought coldly, there would be enough. She discarded the sword.
She circled round again to face Falco and ordered the horse to stand stationary. He had been surprised by events, but regained his composure. He had not seen her retrieve the bow and took her lack of motion of indecision.
“You can’t get away”. he taunted as he strode towards her, “No one bloodies Falco and lives. I don’t care who your father is, I will hunt you down, and…”
She gripped the sides of the animal hard, notched an arrow, and pulled the bowstring tight to chin. The horse swayed slightly. “Good horse. Stay still. Good horse”, she murmered. She released the arrow.
It went wide, passing a foot or so to the right of Falco’s head. Shocked, he realised what was happening and started to run. He had been slowed by his injuries, but Isabetta knew she would only have one more shot. She calmly notched another arrow. 
“For Francesco”, she whispered.
The arrow entered Falco’s eye. Life left him instantly and he collapsed like a broken puppet.
She could not dwell on her revenge: she still had to escape and re-join her friends. The best route was through the mob, the alternative would take her into the fortified piazza. She turned again and kicked the horse toward the mob, intent on building up enough speed to force her way through. 
There was a clatter of hooves against the cobbles and a much larger detachment of soldiers entered the street. These were evidently reinforcements summoned by the soldier who an escaped. A man pointed at Isabetta, recognising one of their own horses. 
“You there!”, he shouted.
Isabetta turned again. She once again found herself with little choice, she could  not fight the soldiers so she would have to somehow try and pass through the Piazza de’lla signora. She kicked the horse into a gallop and raced down the street in the direction of the fortified square.
She found herself galloping down Via towards the line of soldiers blockading the square. They did not have pikes; they were expecting a poorly armed mob, not horses. She pressed the horse to greater speed. It was a military horse and had been trained to trample infantry and showed no signs of slowing as it reached the line of men. The men realised this to and broke formation and scattered to either side of the street. Isabetta crossed the blockade and entered the square. She looked back over her shoulder; close behind the soldiers were in pursuit. 
The piazza had been arranged for the executions scheduled that day. Those guilty of the most serious, like Alegno, would be hung from the balcony of the Palazzo. Less serious offenders would be hung from a scaffold erected in the square for the occasion. A large crowd had gathered in expectation of this entertainment; some had since dispersed in response to the civil unrest. Others had found themselves trapped in the square following orders from Albizzi to secure access. 
Albizzi himself stood on the balcony of the Palazzo, flanked by Milenni and the captain of the Florentine militia. He watched in surprise as Isabetta broke through the cordon, ploughed through the terrified crowd and drew up in the empty centre of the square. Close behind her came the guard detachment. They entered the square in good order along the channel Isabbeta had carved through the audience. They fanned out until they can her surrounded in a semi-circular formation that trapped her between them and the Palazzo. 
There was no way out. She hoped that Alegno and the others had reached safety. Isabetta instinctively patted  her horse’s neck as it shuffled nervously. The crowd were quiet and Isabetta found that she was almost relaxed. Maybe she had lost more blood that she thought, she wondered idly, I feel very tired. She speculated as to what sentence she would receive if she were taken alive: as a woman she was at least fortunate that she was unlikely to be subjected to the most terrible punishments. And as a noble as well, she could reasonably expect a private and dignified beheading.  She would really like to see her brothers and father again, tell them what she had done. They would be proud. She dropped the bow. The riders closed in.
And paused. The bells of the campanile were ringing. Not in the disciplined pattern that denoted a tine of day, but in a wild and cacophonous manner. They were quickly joined by the bells of other churches in the city. The noise from the crowd rose. They knew that this could only mean one thing. This was confirmed as a sole rider burst into the square, pulling up alongside Isabetta to address Albizzi. He hesitated for a moment, puzzled as to exactly what he interrupted, but then gathered himself to announce his news:
“The City is under attack! The Duke of Milan is at the gates”
The edge of Isabetta’s vision darkened. She grabbed the horses neck to steady herself, but her arms had no strength. With a sign, she fell from the horse onto the hard flagstones of the piazza.
:
Albizzi turned to Milenni. 
“If she still lives, have her arrested and imprisoned. You”, he addressed the guard captain, “Rally the militias and secure the gates. Someone fetch that messanger to me.”
The guard captain left. Albizzi paced nervously until the messanger arrived.
“What is the situation?”, he demanded.
“The Duke of Milan, along with a force of maybe four hundred men is less than one days march from the city.”
“And our contractors?”
“All but The White Company, have fled…”
“That is something”
“..who have joined the Duke’s company”, the messagner continued nervously
Albizzi turned red with anger. “’Joined the Duke’s company’ – the traitorous scum!”
“Rumor has it they were well paid by the Medici’s, who now have considerable influence with Rome. Influence Cosimo has used to buy the support of Milan”
Albizzi balled his fists. “Milenni, what do you suggest?”
Milenni thought for a moment and then smiled to himself. He had long fantisised about this moment. He drew himself up to his full height and spoke with the authority of The Eight.
“Gentlemen”, he said to the soldiers nearby, “Arrest Abelgio d’Albizzi on the grounds of treason and the betrayal of the trust of the people of Florence. Messanger”, he spoke to the messanger, “Convey my greetings to the Duke of Milan and his entourage. Inform the Duke that we humbly invite him to enter Florence. We will meet and establish the nature of the misunderstanding that has lead us to this point”
Albizzi looked dumbstruck. 
“Milenni, you fool – I can unmake you…”
The guards took him away
:
Isabetta awoke confused. She was lying in large comfortable four posted bed.  The room was dim, but she made out expensive wall hangings. She pulled herself into a sitting position; pain ran like fire through every limb and slumped back against the head board.
“I see you are awake!”, said the cheerful voice of Lady Hawkwood.
“Where am I?”, said in a voice so weak she barely recognised it as her own.
“Safe. In the Medici’s Palazzo. Or one of them – they have rather a lot”
“Alegno?”
“Safe as well, although in only marginally better shape than you”. She winked saucily, “Desperate to see you – young love, eh?”
“I am not sure I can manage love, just yet.”, she said. She winced as she discovered new sources of pain. Yet the knowledge that Alegno was safe greatly envigorated her. “What of Falco, Albizzi?”
“Falco – well, I believe you took care of him. I don’t think he will be missed. As for Albizzi – Milenni sensed an opportunity and had him arrested. Rumor has it that Albizzi had something on him – probably involving boys, it normally is – and used him to influence The Eight. Milenni hated him and once the Medicis had shown their hand, cast his lot in with them”
“Oh, yes. I remember”, murmered Isabetta, “That was last night?”
“Two nights ago; you lost some blood and were very weak. But nothing serious I am assured – every movement will be agony for weeks, but you willl be fine. You and your friends are to be guests of Cosimo d’Medici for however long it takes for you to recover”
“And then?”
“We are all ‘heroes of the state’ now”, she said with mock pomposity. “It means little, but any infractions will be forgiven. There will some reward, of course” 
There was a knock on the door.
“I should be going”, said Lady Hawkwood, “I will see you later”
Alegno entered. He was still slightly gaunt and walked with difficulty, but smiled warmly at her.
“Isabetta”, he said, “You’re awake at last! When I first saw you, I was so afraid…”. He walked awkwardly to her bedside, bringing his head level with hers. Ignoring the pain, she turned and kissed him. 
“I love you”, he said. 
“I am certain you do”, she said, kissing him firmly on the lips.
:
The Villa Carreggi stood just outside Florence, a short ride from the Porta san Gallo gate set in the city’s north east wall.  It was a pleasant ride the late evening sun, passing under shady poplars with the slight incline affording the beginning of a view over the glowing red tiled roofs. As she approached the villa Mary noted that the buildings origins as a fortress were still very much apparent, but much had been done by the architect MichelLozzi to open up the building, widening entrances and adding additional windows to provide more light and air. The outside had also been transformed from a functional military yard into a place of contemplation and reflection, with the addition of gardens, shady loggia and gentle water features. It came across as very much the residence of a successful and cultured man of business, which, of course, was exactly who Cosimo d’Medici modestly claimed to be. Mary Hawkwood, like anyone involved in the affairs Florence, knew that this was true only in so far as “successful” could be understood to mean the absolute patrician and de facto ruler of Florence. This was further coupled with power and influence that could project his will anywhere in the Christian world ( and likely beyond ). 
A claim Cosimo would dismiss with smile and a flick of the wrist. “Oh, nonsense. I am merely a banker.”.
Mary was greeted by Cosimo’s servant and had her horse and her servants horse taken to be watered by the house servants. She in turn was greeted with deference that would elsewhere be unexpected for someone of her poor station. But she knew why: unlike elsewhere in Christandom, status in Florence was proportionate to wealth. Mary Hawkwood was wealthy enough to ensure that her gender and  low born status would be overlooked and considered irrelevant. To be invited to the Villa – rather than to one of the many town houses and Palazzo’s within the city proper – was an indication that she was being afforded more than common courtesy. This , she thought, bode well for the outcome of the evenings meeting.






The Midici palace offered  plenty of choice with regard to meeting spaces and Cosimo d’Medici felt the choice was important and this act alone could decide the outcome of the meeting. There were small, dark, intimate chambers where we would meet with advisors, or use this simulation of intimacy to  gain the trust and confidence of minor officials. There were large extravagantly decorated chambers where the rich and powerful ( or those who liked to think of themselves as rich and powerful ) were flattered. There were also cold, unfriendly chambers whose stark decoration served to remind the attendents that there were worse rooms they could find themselves in. Other rooms  emphasised the piety of Medici’d, others were for friends and lovers. Each room a role to play and Lorenzo was careful to pick it out.
For his meeting with Mrs Hawkwood, Cosdimo chose a large airy room that offered a view over olive and orange trees. An atypical room for the business they were to discuss – being more suited to old friends discussing old campaigns over wine – but Cosimo was feeling slightly impish and the meeting offered him a excellent opportunity to show Lorenzo what was involved in running Florence.
A servant showed Mrs Hawkwood, a modestly dressed woman in early middle age. Cosimo rose from his chair to greet her – and was pleased with the surprise this engendered. He knew that Mrs Hawkwood had dealt with European nobility and was used to the court rules of deference. To be greeted so informally as someone of equal station clearly wrong footed her. After all, this was Cosimo Medici an easy equal in temporal power to many European rulers. 
“Mrs Hawkwood! A pleasant journey, I trust?”
 “Pleasant enough, Mi’lord. I am delighted by the hospitality of Florence and her citizens”
“Please”. Cosimo gestured to a chair opposite his. “I hope that you do not mind my son joining us. He has much to learn about the nature of government”
“My lord, whateever pleases you”
“Very good. Some wine? It is exceptional, I believe”
Mrs Hawkwood nodded and Lorenzo proceeded to pour the wine into a glass. The was venetian and unimaginably expensive. 
“And so to business. I believe your husband intends to leave our employ unless we can agree a new contract.”
“That is indeed the case, my lord. Painful though it for me to be the bearer of such things, unless we can today agree a contract in excess of 5000 florins, the White Company will henceforth fight for Venice”
“I agree that would be most unfortunate. I would not like to lose the support of your husband’s men when they have been so useful to me in the past”




